
Multiple Inheritance & Mixins In JavaScript
================================================================

## Myth1
_You don't need a library to facilitate Class Mixins_.

## Myth2
_JavaScript does not have Multiple Inheritance_.

## Myth3
_JavaScript never had Object Privacy until the introduction of Hash Properties (`#iAmPrivate`)_.

## Myth4
_Languages should not have Multiple Inheritance because it is confusing -- "what class overrides what"_.

## Reason
JavaScript has always had Multiple Inheritance and Mixin functionality and it is simple.

## Preface
Let's first start by splitting the necessary hairs of this topic.

- Mixins _are_ a form of Inheritance.
- JavaScript `Function`s are "_First Class_" citizens in the language.

## JavaScript Mixins & Multiple Inheritance
The way "classes" used to be defined in JavaScript is the following.

```javascript
var ClassA = function ClassA(options) {
    
    function privateMethod() {
        log(options.privateDatum)
    }
    
    function publicMethod() {}
    
    this.datum = options.datum
    this.publicMethod = publicMethod;
    
    return this;
};
```

```javascript
var object = new ClassA({ datum: true, privateDatum: 'yes' });
object.publicMethod();
object.privateMethod();  // Type Error: privateMethod is not a function
```

The Industry Standards around this pattern were simple.

- Begin the expression with `var {ClassName}` to make it stand out from regular `functions`.
- Use an actual `{ClassName}` as the `function` for transparency of debugging.
- Expose only what you want public.
- Return `this` (or an Object Literal) to avoid hijacking attacks.

### Multiple Inheritance & Mixins
Multiple Inheritance & Mixins were just as simple.

```javascript
var ClassA = function ClassA() {
    
    function methodA() {}
    function methodX() { log('Class A') }
    
    this.methodA = methodA;
    this.methodX = methodX;
    
    return this;
};

var ClassB = function ClassB() {
    
    function methodB() {}
    function methodX() { log('Class B') }
    
    this.methodB = methodB;
    this.methodX = methodX;
    
    return this;
};

var ClassC = function ClassC() {
    
    function methodC() {}
    function methodX() { log('Class C') }
    
    this.methodC = methodC;
    this.methodX = methodX;
    
    return this;
};

var ClassX = function ClassX() {
    
    function methodX() { log('Class X') }
    
    ClassA.apply(this);
    ClassB.apply(this);
    ClassC.apply(this);
    this.methodX = methodX;
    
    return this;
};
```

```javascript
var object = new ClassX();

object.methodA();  // > "Class A"
object.methodB();  // > "Class B"
object.methodC();  // > "Class C"
object.methodX();  // > "Class X"
```

We've always decorated our final objects this way simply by leveraging `Function.prototype.apply` (or `call`). It was never "confusing", it was like any other Mixin type of operation -- whatever was applied last overrode any conflicts of the previous mixin -- simple.

### In modern JavaScript Classes
This works just fine in JavaScript classes as well, however, the Mixins still must be a `function`.

```javascript
const ClassA = function ClassA() {
    ...
};

class ClassX {
    
    constructor() {
        ClassA.apply(this);
    }
    
    methodX() {}
    
}
```

While this works fine in modern JavaScript, it still forces an explicit decision to separate Mixins from normal classes; a little undesireable. It gets worse, however, when we attempt the same thing in TypeScript.


#### In TypeScript
```typescript
const ClassA = function ClassA() {
    ...
};

class ClassX {
    
    constructor() {
        ClassA.apply(this);
    }
    
    methodX() {
        return this.methodA()  // TSC signals a Type Error because "methodA" is not explicitly defined on ClassX
    }
    
}
```

While there may be ways around this, they are cumbersome and have to be repeated for every definition.

## We Still Have Multiple Inheritance & Mixins
While we still have this functionality, **it has almost effectively been removed from the language through classes and TypeScript**. What we really need, is ECMAScript to reintroduce this at the language level. Here is what that might look like.

```javascript
class ClassA {}
class ClassB {}
class ClassC {}
class ClassX extends ClassA, ClassB, ClassC {
    
    constructor() {
        super();  // calls super() on ClassA, ClassB, and then ClassC
    }
    
}
```

This would cascade in overrides in the exact same way as with using the `function` style classes. It seems likely that, if the ECMA TC39 Technical Committee could _not_ achive this by simply reusing the `extends` and `super` keywords, they could introduce new keywords that might look like the following.

```javascript
class ClassX apply ClassA, ClassB, ClassC {
    
    constructor() {
        mixin();
    }
    
}
```

## Synopsis
We demonstrated how Multiple Inheritance & Mixins can be accomplished in the JavaScript language. For now, however, if you want mixins it _is_ completely possible to accomplish the way it always has been, even in TypeScript. But it feels like TC39 actually took away a beautiful feature the language always had. Until the ECMA Technical Committee reintroduces a mechanism to keep carrying this capability forward to be compatible with `class` syntax, developers must just make the conscious decisions around what they want to be _Mixins_ and what should be _Classes_.
