
Feature Flags
================

## Myth
_You need a Feature Flag framework or service for gating features in production_.

## Reason
Most of what you want out of a Feature Flag framework + service can be accomplished by _Environment Flags_.

## Method Level Example
```typescript
import { LitElement, customElement, html, nothing } from 'lit';
import { env } from '@environment';

const { TYPE } = env;

export customElement('sdk-component') class MyElement extends LitElement {
    
    render() {
        if (TYPE === 'prd') return nothing;
        return html`
            <div class="non prod feature">
                ...
            </div>
        `;
    }
    
};
```

## Module Level Example
```typescript
import { LitElement, customElement, html, nothing } from 'lit';
import { env } from '@environment';

const { TYPE } = env;

class MyReleaseCandidateElement extends LitElement {
    
    render() {
        return html`
            <div class="non prod feature">
                ...
            </div>
        `;
    }
    
}

class MyNoOpElement extends LitElement {
    
    render() {
        return nothing;
    }
    
}

export const MyElement = customElement('sdk-component') {
    'mck': MyReleaseCandidateElement,
    'lcl': MyReleaseCandidateElement,
    'dev': MyReleaseCandidateElement,
    'stg': MyNoOpElement,
    'prd': MyNoOpElement,
    'prd': MyNoOpElement,
}[ TYPE ];
```

This works just fine for temporary Release Candidates and avoiding development bottlenecks. However, what if we want something a bit more powerful for something like A|B / Multivariate Testing? For that, whether or not we need a backend to drive this might depend on what our exact goals are. If all we need is a simple 50/50 split (or some other ration), we can still setup a system in our frontend that processes a simple probability and maps it to a string that is easier to map to different features. That might looks something like the following.

## Probability System: `@app/feature/config.ts`
```typescript
const group = calculate();

function calculate() {  // returns 1, 2 or 3
    ...
}

export const { [group]: funnel } = {
    '1': 'campaign1',
    '2': 'campaign2',
    '3': 'campaign3',
};
```

We can likely get a lot of mileage out of an approach like this before we need something with a lot more configurability, if at all. If fact, we can likely even delegate more configuration to a simple JSON file and carry this approach much further forward.

## Driving Traffic By URL
Again, before we necessarily reach for anything serverside and asynchronous, it depends on our needs. If all we need to drive A/B variants is coming from emails. We can set up "_Aux Routes_" in our frontend.

### Aux Routes
And Aux Route, or _Auxiliary Route_, is basically any route that starts at `{origin}/aux`. Aux Routes are intended for external routes coming from _outside_ of the frontend hosting it. This is typically for visitors arriving from other apps or sites in your ecosystem or, more importantly here, from email links.

Driving your A/B variants from emails or similar may be as simple as navigating the user to `{origin}/aux/campaigns/{campaignId}` (or using a URL Search parameter).

## Synopsis
Having said all this, there is some point where you may want to get a server or 3rd-party service involved. The demand for such may make plenty of sense at some point but, if all you need is for the Product Team to manipulate the JSON config through a GUI and commit it to the repository, well, you might even find a clever solution for that. Point is, you can get plenty of mileage out of pure fontend patterns and solutions that, depending on budgets & salaries, may get you where you need to go and save your team or company from subscription service prices that could be unnecessary. If all you need is basic gating of features for development flow, bottlenecking, and Release Candidates -- all you likely need are simple Environment Flags, _not_ an entire Feature Flag system with an invoice attached.
