
Attribute Directives
================================================================

## Myth
_If your framework has no Attribute Directives out of the box, you need a library for it_.

## Reason
There are multiple ways to achieve "Directive" like functionality.

- Devise your own Attribute Directive system.
- Use a wrapper component (not recommended).
- Simply use another component (recommended).

## Attribute Directive System
While it's very easy to devise your own Attribute Directive system there are a few concerns you need to consider.

- Lifecycle Management: depending on which component framework you are using, you can encounter Race Conditions.
- Performance: you'll need some sort of DOM Node crawler that traces from a component's root, down its `children`, across siblings, and iterate on every `attribute` for each `Element`. This can be achieved performantly, however, it is not an easy feat. In tandem with the framework's Component Lifecycle, you may ask yourself if there is an easier way.

Here's what a simple implementation might look like, however.

```javascript
export const directives = new (class Registry extends Map {
    
    register(name, module) {
        this.set(name, { name, module });
        return this;
    }
    
    crawl(root, ...more) {
        if (!root) return;
        const { children, attributes } = root;
        // iterate attributes to find a match
        // if match, this.bootstrap(element, attr);
        this.crawl(...more);
        this.crawl(...children);
    }
    
    bootstrap(element, attr) {
        const { name } = attr;
        const { module } = this.get(name);
        module.call(module, element, attr);
    }
    
})();
```

```javascript
import { directive } from '@core/directive';

directive
    .register((directive, element, attr) => {})
    .register({
        call(directive, element, attr) {}
    })
    ;
```

```html
<Component some-directive="{permissions}" />
```

(OR)

```html
<Component directives="some-directive" data-some-directive="{permissions}" />
```
> _This uses the approach from the earlier Chapter, "Component Frameworks"_.

## `Element` Directives
The easiest way to accomplish your end goal for a directive is by simply defining a new component that creates an `Element` DOM `Node` and bootstraps behavior to it. This can be done in any component framework, if more convenient. Otherwise, this is roughly what it might look like as a Web Component.

```html
<div class="admin toolbar">
    ...
    <sdk-permission type="admin" permissions="${permissions}" />
</div>
```

```javascript
customElements.define('sdk-permission', class PermissionsElement extends HTMLElement {
    
    remove() {
        const { parentElement } = this;
        parentElement.remove();
    }
    
    ['handle:admin'](permissions) {
        if ( !permissions.has('admin-token') ) return this.remove();
    }
    
    connectedCallback() {
        const { attributes } = this;
        const { type, permissions } = attributes;
        const perms = new Set([ ...permissions.split(',') ]);
        const { [`handle:${type}`]: handle } = this;
        
        if (handle) handle.call(this, perms);
    }
    
});
```

This basic example, using a "permissions" directive, simply expects the directive is a direct descendant of the target element and hardcodes the handlers to the scope of the Custom Element. However, we have a lot of room to make this more flexible.

- The Strategy Pattern / The State Pattern: we can leverage these patterns however we like to delegate to other handlers.
  - The State Pattern could be used with a more generic `<sdk-directive>` element to swap entire classes, such as one for "permissions".
  - The Strategy Pattern in tandem with a `[strategy="presence|visibility|disablement]"` attribute can be used to define how the element should be treated; removed from the DOM, hidden, or disabled and grayed out. These can dovetail with CSS as well.
- Target Selectors: Element Directives can involve an attribute that specifies the following.
  - `[targets=".anything.with.any.type.of.selector"]`: Sibling elements' selectors to target.
  - `[omit="parent|siblings"]`: if present, indicates whether the parent vs siblings should be targeted.

## Synopsis
While writing your own custom Attribute Directive framework is a good option, it causes maintenance headaches. Element Directives are highly recommended unless the development framework you're using already bakes Attribute Frameworks into its Component Lifecycle considerations (such as Angular). Whether using native Web Components or another framework, these elements will automatically bootstrap and save you from having to write your own crawler which, generally, needs to be baked into the framework to be most performant. It also provides more room for configuration than a standard Attribute Directive would on a single element because a standard `Attr` instance virtually has only 1 datum of encapsulation while a single `Element` can have many `Attr` associated instances. Other libraries may also claim to hook into React's lifecycle (or another framework), however, you are likely better off writing an Element Directive that can scale to your organization's exact needs.
