
Writing Defensive Code
================================================================

## Myth
_Typical styleguides, linting, and formatters will eliminate Code Rot by themselves_.

## Reason
The most important aspects of corrupted code are resolved by writing Defensive Code. Defensive Coding Practices can feasibly even _replace_ the need for much of the above.

## Defensive Coding Practices
Defensive Coding practices are a small set of syntactical patterns and Rules Of Thumb one applies to the code structures they implement. That is, writing your code in a way such that it reduces or eliminates corruption of its intended purpose after more and more hands touch the code over time. THe chief purpose of styleguides, linting, and formatters are as follows.

- styleguide: define what to prefer and avoid for the purpose of reducing code corruption.
- linting: enforces the styleguide; catches if any of these rulesets were violated.
- formatter: automates the recorrection of violations from the "avoid" to the "prefer".

Because of this, it is very difficult to have all three completely aligned without conceding to _someone else's_ styleguide. In fact, if you are using PrettierJS, its highly strict opinions will be the driver, causing you to have to retrofit & adapt the other two to fit the formatter. We propose a different approach.

- a modest styleguide that reflects Defensive Coding practices, not micromanaging forbidden features of the language.
- a modest linting ruleset that almost exclusively enforces Defensive Coding through mostly custom linting rules (reusable).
- no formatters (see chapter "Code Formatters")

## Defensive Code
The following are examples of Defensive Code that every developer should apply to one's project, if only from a styleguide. Keep in mind, there are even Defensive Coding practices that might not even be enforceable through custom linting rules, much less any formatter. This is why we propose nixing the formatters and employing modesty in your linting and styleguide.

### Multiline Blocks
#### Avoid multiline blocks
##### Reason: Multiline blocks are not nameable.
- Intention is unclear.
##### Reason: Multiline blocks are not reusable.
- Cannot be abstracted.
- Cannot be composed with other operations.
#### Prefer Uniline and Named Operations

#### Multiline `if` Statements Should Be the Exception, Not the Rule.
We've been taught a lie. The lie is to "always use braces for `if`/`else` clauses". This is the opposite of what you should do.

##### Reasoning
If an `if` clause is complicated enough to require multiple lines, the behavior should be tucked away into a nicely named function that indicates the intention of the operation. Indentation & file-length are the top 2 leading criteria that impact readability. Keeping your code flatter makes it more readable. **Anytime you write code in multiline block braces you are inviting corruption to that code with every hand that touches it -- including yourself 6-months down the road**.

### Early Returns / Execution Guards
We've all seen heinous code like this.

```javascript
function modifySomething(type, id, name) {
    if (type) {
        if (id === 'a') {
            if (name !== undefined) {
                // probably
                // lots
                // of
                // redundant
                // code
                // across
                // a
                // b
                // c
                // ... and
                // z
            } else {
                name = 'default';
            }
            
            return 'x';
        } else if (id === 'b') {
            // see clause a ...
            return 'y';
        } else if (id === 'c') {
            // see clause a
            return 'z';
        } else {  // assume id === 'z'
            return null;
        }
    } else {
        return null;
    }
}
```
Dear lord... How is anyone supposed to know what might be going wrong when they debug this unless they carefully spend [too much] time setting a breakpoint on just about every single line and rerunning it a thousand times. How can we have any reliable clue that we are _always_ returning something we expect in this code and not ever `undefined` (because there is no `return` other than those within if/else blocks)? Moreover, how do we know that `if (name !== undefined)` is not misleading? Is it just if it's _falsey_? Or is it ok if `name` is an empty string (`''`) or `null`? "This ...", as my Mentor would say, "... is pure dog [excrement]". And he would be 100% correct.

Code like this likely spun out of control over time, not necessarily from a single person, and there was no [custom] linting rule to catch it.

#### Solution
```javascript
function modifySomething(type='default', id, name='default') {
    if (!type) return null;  // #execution-guard
    if (!id) return null;    // #execution-guard
    if (!name) return null;  // #execution-guard
    const { ... } = DEFAULTS;
    // ... more setup for more variables
    
    if (id === 'a') return modifySomethingForId(id, name);  // #early-return
    if (id === 'b') return modifySomethingForId(id, name);  // #early-return
    if (id === 'c') return modifySomethingForId(id, name);  // #early-return
    return null;
}

function modifySomethingForId(id, name) {
    if (!id) return null;    // #execution-guard
    if (!name) return null;  // #execution-guard
    // otherwise
    // lots
    // of
    // redundant
    // code
    // across
    // a
    // b
    // c
    // ... and
    // z
    return null;
}
```
A world of improvement. Notice a couple of things about the solution.

- The code is flatter (thus more readable).
- The code is more SRP (see SOLID).
- The code is less redundant.
- It is easier to tell what scenarios we _do_ (and don't) target/capture.
- We know, _for sure_, we are _always_ going to return something (`null` by default).
- The code will _always_ either (a) hit an Execution Guard or (b) run in a _HappyPath_ manner (the way we expect).
- All we had to do is invert some conditions, add some Execution Guards & Early Returns, and wrap redundant code in a function.
- Maintaining this code just means adding more Execution Guards or Early Returns.

### Named Operations, Anonymous Functions, Inline Arrow-Functions/Lambdas and Multiline Inline Declarations
First off, **always name your ops!**. Anonymous functions _do_ have their place, but that place is not _everywhere_. The issue with anonymous functions is that (a) they can lead to a rather useless debugging experience and (b) they actually make the JavaScript compiler (yes, compiler) have to work harder [<sup>according to Kyle Simpson</sup>]. The other issue, a large issue, is that you cannot "name your ops" with anonymous functions. Naming your operations has several benefits

- easier debugging
- clarity of intention
- identification of abstraction

The latter is a big one. If everything is an anonymous function then it becomes _much_ more difficult for another hand to come by and extrapolate behavior that can be factored into an abstract function, which behavior can be wrapped by another function, and when an entirely new function should be created for similar but different behavior. Take the following code for example.

#### Poor Maintainability
```jsx
import React, { useEffect } from 'react';

const DEFAULT_PROPS = {
    ...
};

function Component(props) {
    const { x, y, z } = { ...DEFAULT_PROPS, ...props };
    
    useEffect(() => {  // operation A
        // subroutine 0
        // subroutine 1
        // subroutine 2
        // subroutine 3
        // subroutine 4
        // subroutine 5
    });
    
    useEffect(() => {  // operation B
        // subroutine 0
        // subroutine 1
        // subroutine 2
    }, []);
    
    useEffect(() => {  // operation C
        // subroutine 3
        // subroutine 4
        // subroutine 5
    }, [ x ]);
    
    useEffect(() => {  // operation D
        // subroutine 0
        // subroutine 1
        // subroutine 2
    }, [ x, y, z ]);  // observes x, y & z
    
    return (<>...</>)
}
```
As you can see from the comment labeling, there are redundancies in the code. If these were named we would have an even clearer idea of where the commonalities exist. These are all _inline declarations_ that discourage the next person from pulling them out and naming the ops themselves. Moreover, the next person will likely have little to no understanding of the original intention and be encouraged to just modify each operation in place, so as to disturb the code as little as possible, leading to more corruption of the code. That is, _this code invites corruption_. And this is before we even get into returning any cleanup functions for scope disposal that might look similar.

#### Solution
```jsx
import React, { useEffect } from 'react';

const DEFAULT_PROPS = {
    ...
};

function Component(props) {
    const { x, y, z } = { ...DEFAULT_PROPS, ...props };
    
    function mount() {  // operation A
        // subroutine 0
        // subroutine 1
        // subroutine 2
        // subroutine 3
        // subroutine 4
        // subroutine 5
    }
    
    function initialize() {  // operation B
        // subroutine 0
        // subroutine 1
        // subroutine 2
    }
    
    function observeX() {  // operation C
        // subroutine 3
        // subroutine 4
        // subroutine 5
    }
    
    function observeXYZ() {  // operation D
        // subroutine 0
        // subroutine 1
        // subroutine 2
    }
    
    useEffect(mount);
    useEffect(initialize, []);
    useEffect(observeX, [ x ]);
    useEffect(observeXYZ, [ x, y, z ]);
    
    return (<>...</>)
}
```
Looking much better already. In fact, we may have actually shortened the code. And this might not be perfect in its current state, but it is a lot better than before because it is (a) _more improvable_ and (b) not inviting corruption into itself. Now let's see how the next hand might come by to improve it through refactoring the operations.

#### After Refactor
```jsx
import React, { useEffect } from 'react';

const DEFAULT_PROPS = {
    ...
};

function Component(props) {
    const { x, y, z } = { ...DEFAULT_PROPS, ...props };
    
    function subroutine012() {
        // subroutine 0
        // subroutine 1
        // subroutine 2
    }
    
    function subroutine345() {
        // subroutine 3
        // subroutine 4
        // subroutine 5
    }
    
    function mount() {  // operation A
        subroutine012();
        subroutine345();
    }
    
    function initialize() {  // operation B
        subroutine012();
    }
    
    function observeX() {  // operation C
        subroutine345();
    }
    
    function observeXYZ() {  // operation D
        subroutine012();
    }
    
    useEffect(mount);
    useEffect(initialize, []);
    useEffect(observeX, [ x ]);
    useEffect(observeXYZ, [ x, y, z ]);
    
    return (<>...</>)
}
```
Ok, this code _might_ be _slightly_ longer (because of braces) but it is pretty negligible. Nonetheless, we get a massive benefit for the tradeoff. Our code is significantly _more improvable_ than it was before.

#### (Re)Coupled
```jsx
import React, { useEffect } from 'react';
import { utilities } from '@core/utilities';  // <-- factored out into common utilities object

const DEFAULT_PROPS = {
    ...
};

function Component(props) {
    const { x, y, z } = { ...DEFAULT_PROPS, ...props };
    
    function mount() {  // operation A
        utilities.subroutine012();
        utilities.subroutine345();
    }
    
    useEffect(mount);
    useEffect(utilities.subroutine012, []);  // operation B
    useEffect(utilities.subroutine345, [ x ]);  // operation C
    useEffect(utilities.subroutine012, [ x, y, z ]);  // operation D
    
    return (<>...</>)
}
```
Again, a large improvement. Again, a reduction in code. Now that some little angel refactored this to provide clear and concise boundaries of intention: not only do we have less code to figure out and stumble over, we know that when certain behavior needs to change across the board for a specific type of operation we can change it in just _one_ spot. Likewise, we can add new behavior only where it actually belongs without struggling to figure out which places require it and which do not. In fact, now we might even be able to extract one or more of the subroutines out to put it into a `utilities` module that can be used across other components. In other words, we may have just _decoupled_ some of the code (from itself), separating _abstraction from implementation_. Anytime we can decouple code it is always a _massive_ win.

It not only frees one module but it also empowers other modules, making them all more SRP (see SOLID) by increasing their _Cohesion_. You might say, "but wait... I thought Cohesion _decreases_ as Coupling _increases_". True. What we actually did is _reorganize_ our coupling. We actually coupled this code with a new utilities module, so we indeed _increased_ our _Link Degree_ (_Fan-In/Fan-Out_). We decoupled the code from itself so as to accept the tradeoff of using it elsewhere. Just because we _abstracted_ it that does _not_ mean we _decreased_ its coupling. The benefit we gained by increasing the code's Fan-Out and increasing its Cohesion is that now we have more consistency & reliability across the entire system (as opposed to having to hunt & peck everywhere when a requirement changes).

#### Summary
Avoid using anonymous functions. Avoid using multiline inline declarations. When passing a function into another as a callback (or "predicate function") either use a single-line arrow-function/lambda or provide a named function. The only time you should not worry about "naming your ops" is when it is a simple single-line arrow-function. If it is multiline then the operation is complex enough (or will be soon enough) to warrant naming the operation to convey its intention. Not to mention: your code will become flatter and read nicer, allowing the reader to approach the code in a Top-Down, Stepwise manner and even omitting low-level details that they might not be concerned with (at least before understanding the code at a lower resolution first). Lastly, when you actually define a function with the `function` keyword, it makes it a lot easier to immediately determine which declarations are actually _variables_ and which are actually _functions_. **Name your ops!!!**

### Multiline Module Exports
We've all come across code like this.

##### `**/helpers.ts`
```typescript
import { env } from '@env';
import { utilities } from '@core/utilities';

export const canProvideFor = (data, callback) => {
    callback('parkingGarage' in data);
};

export const execute = (callback) => {
    callback(env.API_URL);
};

const { API_URL } = env;

function convertURL(url, secure = true) {
    if (!secure) return url.replace('https', 'http');
    return url.replace('http', 'https');
}

export const convertToSSL = (url) => convertURL(url);

let details;

const initDetails = () => details = {};
const modifyDetails = (details) => details.modified = true;
initDetails();
modifyDetails(details);

export function initialize() {
    utilities.doSomeStuff();
}

let destroyed = false;
export const destroy = () => {
    destroyed = true;
}
```

There are _so_ many things wrong with this code. Are they _trying_ to write heinous code? Seriously. While this is merely an example, it may as well be pulled from countless examples I've encountered in the wild.

###### A Side-Tangent Rant About "Helpers"
By the way -- as a sidenote: I _never_ want to work in a project with a file called "_helpers_". Projects with "helpers" are always **the worst**. And there is never just 1 file called "helpers", there are 7 or more. Calling something "helpers" is a lot like calling a file "tools", it doesn't mean much. But we already have the existing convention in JavaScript (and software, generally) for something called "_utilities_". That's not much different but, for some odd reason, every project I see with "helpers" has immeasurable issues with it. Even worse: you'll see time and again a file called "helpers" pulling in a "utilities" object. So, then, what in Heaven's name is the difference between a "helper" and a "utility"? Experience. That's the difference. The projects with 7+ different "helpers" across the system is one in which Juniors ran rampant without _any_ mentorship from Seniors. That is just really bad for the Juniors, not to mention the project. In fact, the project was likely initialized in greenfield by Juniors. I don't know why so many shops do this to themselves. They just shoot themselves in the ~~foot~~ kneecap right out of the gates and do nothing but limp their way along for the first 80 meters in the 100 meter dash. **Advice to Management**: _use your most experienced engineers to start a project out and give it a fighting chance. Don't kneecap yourself before the race even begins_.

#### Solution

##### `**/some/other/domain/utilities.ts`  <-- renamed using standard conventions and Domain-Driven Design
```typescript
import { env } from '@env';
import { utilities as core } from '@core/utilities';

const { API_URL } = env;
const convertToSSL = convertURL.bind(undefined, true);
const details = {
    modified: true,
};
let destroyed = false;

function canProvideFor(data, callback) {
    callback('parkingGarage' in data);
};

function execute(callback) {
    callback(API_URL);
};

function convertURL(secure = true, url) {
    if (!secure) return url.replace('https', 'http');
    return url.replace('http', 'https');
}

function initialize() {
    core.doSomeStuff();
}

function destroy() {
    destroyed = true;
}

export {
    canProvideFor,
    execute,
    convertToSSL,
    initialize,
    destroy,
};
```

#### When Inline Exports Are Ok
Inline exports are actually great when you write something that is so basic it is almost impossible to be corrupted over time. Usually this is when you can logically only have a single simple export.

```javascript
export const constants = {
    SOME_CONSTANT: '...',
    ...
};
```

```javascript
export default {
    SOME_CONSTANT: '...',
    ...
};
```

##### `./endpoints.ts`
```typescript
import { env } from '@env';

const { API_URL } = env;

export default {
    PROJECTS: `${API_URL}/projects`,
    PARTICIPANTS: `${API_URL}/participants`,
};
```

```javascript
import { LitElement, customElement } from 'lit';

export customElement('sdk-element') class SDKElement extends LitElement {
    ...
};
```

```javascript
import { Translator as Core } from '@core/utilities/l10n';
export const { translate, change } = new (class Translator extends Core {})({...});
```

Just be mindful that, if the file may likely eventually export more than just a single basic module, then you are essentially inviting your code to be corrupted. Advise: only use inline exports when you are certain of this; if you have any doubt, don't do it. Otherwise, all you are doing is inviting corruption into the code.

#### Prefer This Convention
```javascript
// |
// |
// V
// {IMPORTS}

// |
// |
// V
// {TS TYPES}

// |
// |
// V
// {ASSIGNMENTS (VARIABLE DECLARATIONS)}

// |
// |
// V
// {FUNCTION/METHOD DECLARATIONS}

// |
// |
// V
// {CLASS DECLARATIONS}

// |
// |
// V
// {OPERATIONS & INVOCATIONS}

// |
// |
// V
// {RETURNS}

// |
// |
// V
// {EXPORTS}
```

#### Files
```javascript
import { tools } from 'library';
import { env } from '@env';
import { constants, collection } from './local';

const { TYPE, API_URL, ETC } = env;
const { SOME_CONSTANT, SOME_OTHER_CONSTANT } = env;
const refined = collection.reduce(refine, new Map());
const registry = new Set()
    .add(handleX)
    .add(handleY)
    .add(handleZ)
    ;
const defaults = {
    ...,
    ...,
    ...,
};

function refine(map, item) {
    if (map.has(item.id)) return map;
    const { id } = item;
    return map.set(id, item);
}

function handleX() { ... }

function handleY() { ... }

function handleZ() { ... }

function setup() { ... }

class Class { ... }

setup(refined, defaults);

export { refined, registry, defaults };  // variables
export {  // functions
    refine,
    handleX,
    handleY,
    handleZ,
};
```

#### Functions/Methods
```javascript
async function reduce(data, item) {
    const { id } = item;
    const { [id]: existing } = data;
    const has = (id in data);
    const response = await fetch(API_URL, { ... });
    const hydrated = await response.json();
    
    utilities.publish('ITEM:HYDRATED', hydrated);
    
    if (has) return { ...data, [id]: hydrated };
    return data;
}
```

#### Classes
```javascript
class Klass {
    var0 = '';
    var1 = '';
    var2 = '';
   
    constructor(sandbox, options = {}) {
        const { var0, var1, var2 } = { ...this, ...options };
        
        this.var0 = var0;
        this.var1 = var1;
        this.var2 = var2;
        sandbox.subscribe('SOME:CHANNEL', this.handleSomeEvent);
        
        return this;
    }
    
    method0() { ... }
    
    method1() { ... }
    
    method2() { ... }
    
    handleSomeEvent = (e) => { ... };
    
}
```

## Ignition Buttons
What is an "ignition button"? Like a car, you need _some way_ to run the thing. Imagine if, with a car, there was no ignition-key operation to turn the motor over. Imagine that there were several ways: you could (a) rub some wires together underneath the steering wheel, (b) rub some wires together under the hood, (c) a push-start mechanism, or (b) a kick-start mechanism. Well, those are not bad options for secondary or tertiary options in case the main option fails, but without a main ignition mechanism you would likely have some people running it one way and others another just because they perhaps were not aware of other options.

Moreover, you'd likely have people trying to rewire the electrical system just to make the one way work, or one of the other ways when the one fails, or completely new ways never anticipated; each way would likely break others. That's what happens with software when you don't provide a [main] ignition operation. Everyone's going to be running it a different way and someone's going to try to rewire the whole damn thing's internals just to get it to run. So there need be a main way and the main way better work for everybody, only giving them failover alternatives for rare scenarios.

### Ignition in `package.json`
```json
{
    "name": "ignition-example",
    "scripts": {
        "start": "framework start",
        "test": "runner --target='./**/*.spec.ts'",
        "build": "framework compile --target='./src/**/*.ts' --output='./dist'",
        "deploy": "cli ./dist --dest='https://username:password@www.example.com'"
    },
    ...
}
```
This is a great start but there are a lot more positions our ignition key can have.

```json
{
    "name": "ignition-example",
    "scripts": {
        "mck:start":            "framework start --type=mck",
        "mck:build":            "framework build --type=mck",
        "mck:build:watch":      "framework build --type=mck -w",
        "postmck:build:watch":  "http lift ./dist",
        "dev:start":            "framework start --type=dev",
        "dev:build":            "framework build --type=dev",
        "dev:build:watch":      "framework build --type=dev -w",
        "postdev:build:watch":  "http lift ./dist",
        "stg:start":            "framework start --type=stg",
        "stg:build":            "framework build --type=stg",
        "stg:build:watch":      "framework build --type=stg -w",
        "poststg:build:watch":  "http lift ./dist",
        "prd:start":            "framework start --type=prd",
        "prd:build":            "framework build --type=prd --sourcemaps=true",
        "prd:build:watch":      "framework build --type=prd --sourcemaps=true -w",
        "postprd:build:watch":  "http lift ./dist",
        "start": "npm run dev:start",
        "test": "runner --target='./**/*.spec.ts'",
        "build": "npm run prd:build",
        "deploy": "cli ./dist --dest='https://username:password@www.example.com'"
    },
    ...
}
```
We provide ignition buttons for each way that we want to run the app -- mock mode, dev mode, staging, production -- so that, for instance, we can troubleshoot a production issue locally with sourcemaps enabled. Moreover, you may want to have these other `{env}:build` scripts to test how things get packaged before deploying to production (or staging). We even provided `{env}:build:watch` scripts that provides HMR (Hot Module Reload) capability. We went a step further to provide `pre{script-name}` scripts to serve the `dist` folder statically with an HTTP cli tool.


## How to Write Comments
```javascript
/* ================================================================================
FILE HEADER COMMENT
================================================================================ */

/**
 * Function, Method, Class, or otherwise multiline structures.
 * This
 * can
 * be
 * a
 * long
 * description
 */

// inline comment

// |
// | SECTION COMING UP
// V
```

### Examples
```javascript
/* ===========================================================================================
    Route Composite Module
    Here is where we would write a big long and indepth description of the entire file 
    and provide almost a README document about the file at large. Usually, however, 
    you will still be better off writing an actual README and placing it next to this 
    file as its sibling.
=========================================================================================== */

/**
 * @name Route-Composite
 * @intent Create a router object that can take in a route definition including children and generate
 *      * a high-level Router that acts in congruence with its child-routes. ...
 * @patterns { The Composite Pattern, Recursion }
 */
class RouteComposite {
    parent = this;
    id = '';
    children = [];
    
    constructor(options = {}, parent = this) {
        const { id, children } = options;
        
        this.parent = parent;
        this.id = id;
        this.children = this.link(children);
        window.addEventListener('hashchange', this.handleHashChange, true);
        
        return this;
    }
    
    static link(parent, child) { ... }  // example static utility method
    
    /**
     * @name link
     * @intent use Recursion to process and link each child-route node to its parent-route node...
     * @param @child a RouteComposite-looking object-literal route definition.
     * @param @more a list of moure @child definitions
     */
    link(child, ...more) {  // Tail-Call Optimized
        if (!child) return [ ];  // if child is absent, abort. do not recur.
        const { id, children } = child;
        const node = new RouteComposite(child, this);  // ensure this is parent of its children
        
        if (more.length) return this.link(node, ...more);  // recur
        return RouteComposite.link(this, node);  // returns a linked structure of parent-child-sibling relationship.
    }

    // |
    // | HANDLERS
    // V
    handleHashChange = (e) => {  // leverages Race Conditions reliably to determine which route catches hashchange event.
        ...
    }
    
}
```


## Listy Objects: Growers vs Showers
For lack of better terminology, this reflects how and when to write a 'listy' object _inline_ vs _broken out_. What's a "listy" object? _A listy object is just an array or object-literal/map that conveys some information for lookup or iteration_. You don't need to use this terminology at work, but it will help to think of listy objects along these lines.

### Showers
```javascript
const types = [ 'user', 'admin', 'superadmin' ];
```
We write a list like this because (a) the available values are _limited_ and (b) there is _not_ a large amount of them. If this list was larger or it would likely _grow_ as the app does (the list grows as more requirements arrive) then we would consider this list a "grower".

#### Inline Map
```typescript
function handleCheckboxChange(e) {
    const { target } = e;
    const { value }: { value: 'true'|'false'|boolean|undefined|null|''|1|0 } = target;
    const checked = { 'true': true, 'false': false, 'undefined': false, 'null': false, '': false, '1': true, '0': false }[ value ];
    
    if (checked) ...;
    else ...;
}
```
Even though we have a rather robust list of possible values to map to (or keys), that list is _not ever growing any bigger_. We used an inline map because this code hypothetically had some sort of oneoff but the point is the same. Moreover, _Prettier_ would want to treat this (and every godforsaken object) as a _grower_ when it clearly is actually just a show-er. Of course we are bumping up against the line of a rational character-column limit, but this is easily remedied with a quick two-fingered flick on the touchpad and back. After all, is it really something you care about seeing again once you have a quick glance at it? No, it is extremely trivial after that first glance. That said, it is pushing the limits a bit so after adding a few more values to it you may want to pull it out, stick it somewhere nicely, and consider it a grower (by our definition above).

### Growers
```javascript
export const handlers = new Set()
    .add(handleScenarioA)
    .add(handleScenarioB)
    .add(handleScenarioC)
    .add(handleScenarioD)
    .add(handleScenarioE)
    .add(handleScenarioF)
    .add(handleScenarioG)
    .add(handleScenarioH)
    ;

function handleScenarioA() {...}
...
```
This list is a "grower" because we can assume that other use-cases will arise before long and somebody will need to register another handler with our system. Another example of a grower may be a `routes` definition. Another: a `constants` object or an `endpoints` docket.


## Synopsis
Most "styleguides" are not style _guides_, they are style _mandate_ documents. More important than a styleguide is **writing Defensive Code**. The guiding principle behind writing Defensive Code should be one's intuition and that is what a style _guide_ really is: a document such as this that points to _a set of **principles**_ to help you build an intuition about coding instead of a document that points to _a set of low-level dictates for every currently known situation_. This is important because (a) we cannot predict every possible situation that our OCD wants to _micromanage_, (b) the entire point is to avoid corruption in our code -- not micromanage experienced professionals, (c) nobody has their productivity slashed by having to conform to micromanagement "nits", (d) Junior developers get the opportunity to learn how to read other styles of code, and (e) Code Reviews are geared closer to how much the code _invites corruption_ or not, instead whether or not you used a perfectly reasonable feature of the language that was "just unacceptable" in someone else's eyes (because of dogma, OCD, and micromanagement).
