
Artificial Intelligence
================================================================
In this article, we aim not to disect every little claim but, rather, put a few things on the radar for you to do more research yourself. If you've made it this far, I've likely already upset you almost enough. This is a take-it-or-leave-it section because, well, you're either aware of the following or not. There is not much effort put into this article because you're probably already setting the book down, if not setting it ablaze.

## Myths
- AI lives up to its claims
- AI will take everyone's jobs
- AI is safe
- AI will remain available to everyone
- AI is scalable & sustainable
- AI will usher in AGI (worse)
- AI is not a bubble

## Reason
It's almost all a lie.

### What I Am _Not_ Worried About
Many are worried that AI will replace human jobs and labor. While we've certainly seen pain & damage en masse from AI Layoffs, it is actually a self-correcting problem on second thought. Simply put, if a novice never gets hired, they'll likely never get experience that will make them an expert. If there are no experts, the AI takes a critical hit in its learning" that makes it less useful and, further ahead, we talk about what its usefulness actually looks like, which doesn't look good for anybody. Suffice to say, "no juniors, no seniors, to ROI".

### What I _Am_ Worried About
Many issues arrise as soon as you take AI at face-value. These range from petty crime, White Collar crime, and deep fraud to limits due to the anatomy of LLMs and econimic reprocussions.

#### The Nigerian Prince Is King
If I is to remain free or vastly affordable, we have a problem. We even see it now. Virtually every petty criminal you used to see stealing a bicycle wheel on the street corner has a smartphone. That smartphone probably has or will have some form of AI onboard. You've likely already been the target of Phishing Scams that are much more convincing that they otherwise would be if it weren't for AI. That "Nigerian Prince" scam used to be easy to catch because of hilarious type-errors among other things. Now the Negerian Prince is king as he just became a lot more successful.

This isn't simply limited to Phishing scams, it's all scams. Petty Criminals just became White Collar criminals and anywhere there is money you are going to find those systems under siege. In fact, they're using AI to sniff out more corners where money is and use AI to come up with much more elaborate breaches from both Cyber penetration and Social Engineering together. How can this not end up with every State Wellfair program, social service, and virtually all systems getting DDOS Attacked and completely overwhelmed? An even more disturbing revelation is that we'll likely have to use AI to combat AI. That sounds like a cat & mouse game that'll mean we never return control to ourselves if/when it eventually gets out of control.

##### One Solution: Federally Regulated Equipment
It seems likely that, at some point, AI (especially AGI) will have to become a federally regulated equipment, not unlike other materials and devices. There are many objects in this category, not limited to things like Thermite and CRISPR Technology. Here are a few of those domains.

- Explosives and Pyrotechnics
- Firearms and Weapons
- Medical and Radiological Devices
- Telecommunications and Radio Equipment

People have already tricked AI, even after safety measure to ask it outright, into teaching them how to make IEDs and other weaponry. If you're not allowed to possess thermite without a federal license, why shouldn't a tool that walks you stepwise through how to make it not be regulated as well. I believe this is where AI is ultimately headed, so, if you're not a corporation who can afford the premiums likely associated with those licenses, I'd get crackin' on that backlog of Vibe Coding projects while its still available to you. Making AI only available this way to vetted scientists & engineers, movie producers, and trusted entities might be the only way to avoid The Nigerian King scenario. Plus, that should also be good for ML Engineers as well, making them a more White Glove asset in the marketplace and driving up their salaries.


#### Scalability & Sustainability
Without getting into the "greenness" of AI, it is no secret that AI & their datacenters are resource hogs. Anything from rolling blackouts when the grid struggles to large amounts of water for cooling. The problem is when you realize that they are not even using it for _advancement_, per se, but merely for squeezing out marginal gains in productivity.

ChatGPT, alone, loses $5B for every $2.5B invested and it's literally for marginal gains. Microsoft is $400,000,000 _upside down_ from Copilot, _alone_. The the list of records like these is staggering, given their magnitudes. It is because **AI does not scale like usual software and Venture Capitalists have been knowingly mislead**, I would guess.

Normal software scales unlike other things because it has a very loose relationship between physical resources and productivity. With normal software, if you want more productivity you simply put more money into hiring Senior Engineer whose experience allows him to find abstractions, simplify codebases & architecture to make them more maintainable, and drive quality while loweing the cost of engineering. AI doesn't work like that, at least not at the moment. AI, for any minute increase in _productivity_ (not even _advancement_), must pour massive amounts of resources into the operation -- real estate, silicon, electricity, and water. In this way, AI as an industry scales more like a Hospital System than an IT department, and the infrastructure is not even something _you_ own or have hardly any say over.

This is likely why, at time of writing, **55% of companies who conducted "AI layoffs" have said they regretted it and are now implementing programs to replenish their human personnel**. That's not a good look for the AI industry but it might be for those companies, relatively speaking. This is proof in the pudding that AI falls short of the claims we've had force-fed to use. And, if you want to gain a better understanding of how it falls short of its claims, you need not look further than YouTube. There are insurmountable demonstration of embarassingly pitiful shortfalls alongside engineers around the top of their field laying it all out technically. But the main reason it falls short of its claims is because it is simply incapable of achieving them.

##### Anatomy Of An LLM
Without going to deep, suffice to say, there is something of a _memory capacitor_ that limits the LLM. That capacitor is called the _Context Window_. Here's roughly how it works: you submit tokens/prompts, it first hits the Context Window and, if the window has enough capacity it ties those into the context in which the agent should respond. Otherwise, it reduces the Context Window to make room for more context from your latest prompt.

This, I believe, plays into much of the fraud taking place in this industry, aginst both VCs and the public at large. Is this why they are trying to brute force their models with raw resources? AI companies have been telling their investors that 'these are just the growing pains it will take to achieve AGI'. This, frankly, sounds like the same message Communist regimes tell their population; "it's just a short famine -- hang in their for the utopia".

If true, it means that "What I Am _Not_ Worried About" will actually be something to worry about. Personally, all my worries get applified if we achieve AGI. It'll mean true mass replacement of humans and elimination of jobs and the problem of Bike Wheel Thieves gone White Collar is even worse from an even more powerful technology. Still, however, I am not worried about AGI because how far-fetched it seems at the outsets that we can get machines to have _novelty_. And, if we did, we may likely have to evolve its brain for as long as ~~the human brain~~ the brain in general has take to evolve, and we'd need the cleverness of nature to do it as well as nature has. In which case, will it still be more cost-effective than just hiring a human?

#### The Entry Level Brain
Now that you understand the Context Window, the question is: how is this more scalable than the 'context window' of a human? How can an LLM's Context Window compete with even an Entry Level employee, whose window can grow over the course of their career? This is a huge problem for AI of any kind. That is why Software Engineering is one of the tougher professions. What separates the Senior Engineer from the Junior is not how quick one can pound out code to ship, its _how many aspects of the software at **different scales** the developer **can keep in context** while they write they come up with the approach and while they write the code_.

The reason you get "_Architectural Skew_" and why AI simply is not a replacement of a Software Engineer is, namely, for two reasons. One is that the LLM's Context Window simply does not have capacity for keeping track of everything at each scale simultaniously, such as

1. Syntax: rolls up into a smaller stucture, like a method or function.
1. Encapsulation: how those methods & function (and otherwise) roll up into a class or module.
1. Modular: how modules fit together in a system with others in alignment with the application architecture.
1. Architectural: how those applications' architecture roll into a broader set of systems.
1. Organizations: how those architectures support various parts of the organization.
1. Business: how the subcomponents of a business support the business and fit into the economy, itself.

AI is a farcry away from even handling the first scale consistently. The other reason for Architectural Skew is due to something AI experts have praised AI for over the course of decades: "it finds the most clever solutions to problems that a human simply would not think about". That message reflects the fact that AI, in order to solve a small local problem, will make _many small tweaks to the environment so that the problem can then be solved_. This is great if you're looking for a cure for cancer, not so much if you already have an Architecture Definition you'd like to stick with because it rolls up into a bigger picture. With AI, before you know it, you have to wrangle a Period Doubling Path to Chaos of bugs because it wanted to change your layout for it to add one small additional HTML structure, instead of using the CSS one-liner that a human would have already known to implement.


### Kevin Powell Finally Speaks Out
While there are many software engineers and others taking AI to task in technical ways or by example, one professional who finally recently vocalized their thoughts on the subject is CSS guru, Keven Powell. The only reason I bring this to light is that he, like myself, probably bit his tongue for a rather long time. His explanations were as professional as anything else he's put out -- very -- and if Mr. Powell, with all he may have to stake on saying controversial things, is saying it then it probably means the jig is up.

### I'm With Michael Burry
Before getting into similar patterns of _Synthetic CDOs_ we can see playing out in the AI industry, it is fair to say that the onslaught of _Mania_, _Fraud_, and potential to collide with other bubbles in the economy is numerous. Before long, investors will demand collection. That means these tools will receive a price hike (as they're already doing). After some point, they'll need to start applying the AI in ways that might look like utility robots (humanoid or otherwise). But nobody, especially those unemployed, are going to go for a $10,000 AI appliance, so the AI industry may move to a broader B2B business model. People may make a 'synthetic CDO' by leasing one of these bots from their appartment complex, work establishment, or otherwise before leasing it out to others at a higher price, because it is all the more scarce at that point.

It's difficult to say how that bubble may burst or whether it truly will but, suffice to say, Michael Burry has targeted the AI and semiconductor market with a $1.1 billion macro-short campaign.

### Protecting Oneself
In short, be highly strategic, careful, and selective in how you apply AI to your career. Not just in your daytoday but especially in deciding which parts of your brain you want it to take over control from. More stats can be found on "brain laziness" from using AI, how much time it actually saves Junior vs Seniors, and many many other studies. Heck, even my own manager stood in front of the entire company to pump it up and here's what he said: "... basically 100% coverage with AI across the entire company" (mandated), "6.4K prompts produced ... 2.1K AI prompts accepted ... 4.3K lines of code written across all repositories". He wanted it to sound like a good thing but, especially in a company with probably tens of millions of lines of code, these numbers are nothing to boast about but the opposite.

If you go back and watch the movie about the 2008 Housing Market Crisis, "The Big Short", you may find some similarities. But when there already seems to be another housing bubble on the rise, it seems unlikely that an employment crisis along with another large industry bubble is not going to knock into that one.

Not unlike the rest of this book, we need to exercise our ability -- especially as people in technology fields -- to recognize what good tech is as much as bad tech, which I am calling "Tieback". We need analog fallbacks and ways to identify whether or not technology has positive tieback to the real world. Otherwise, it's just vaporware that only technology theorists will value while technology pragmatists will be those actually applying technology in a way that truly benefits us in useful ways with real tieback.

#### Entropy
The best definition of _entropy_ that I've seen that applies to all systems is this.

> _The amount of energy in a system that cannot be put into additional use._

This is why _reuse_ in our field is so important. However, even simple digital assets decrease entropy. If my previous manager writes a testimonial about me as a reference for a recruiter or prospective hiring manager elsewhere, he writes in once in a `.txt` file. The next time another recruiter reaches out to him for a reference testimonial about me, my previous manager simply copy & pastes the one he already wrote into an email.

This seems to be something that AI does not have the strongest capability for, assuming that most prompts & query tokens are unique because the circumstance also is. While LLM tokens _do_ have some reuse, it seems hard to believe that they are still not high entropy operations the majority of the time.

##### Advice from Arthur Eddington
> "_The law that entropy always increases holds, I think, the supreme position among the laws of Nature... If your theory is found to be against the second law of thermodynamics I can give you no hope; there is nothing for it but to collapse in deepest humiliation._"

~ Sir Arthur Eddington

## Shout Outs
- Kevin Powell (YouTube, "Illusions of Mastery")
- Malewicz (YouTube, "You have weeks left to vibe-code")
- Josh Risser, The Infographics Show (YouTube, [AI Playlist])
- GEN (YouTube, "How Tech CEOs Quietly Killed Their Own AI")
- JetBrains Academy (YouTube, "What AI dies to the minds of novice coders")
- Zoran on C# (YouTube, "AI Software Development is Near-Impossible")
- devsplate (YouTube, "The Great AI Reality Check Has Begun")
- Kyle Cook, Web Dev Simplified (YouTube, "AI Is Discovering the Doorman Fallacy")
- Modern Software Engineering (YouTube, "We Studied 150 Developers Using AI...")

## Up Next...
If you've made it this far, you're in for a special treat. The next and final section is something that advances The Web at large. It invents something new and, in addition, solves a long-dwelled problem developers have questioned for decades without solution. When you read it, please keep asking yourself: is this kind, or any kind of radical innovation (or any innovation), able to accomplish the level of normal innovation that humans provide through either small-scale clever optimizations or epiphonic revelations a single individual has or in combination with collective epiphonies between themselves and others? Are AI-driven companies deliberately foregoing the prospect of innovation or are they blindly trusting that AI is capable of such, even when that was never even been a marketed promise in the first place?
