
Code Formatters
================
If you've stayed with us this far and found the "Defensive Coding" article helpful, you're in for a treat. In not, you probably want to set this book down now. This article is about PrettierJS, and we take no prisoners here.

## Myth1
_Code Formatters are good for everyone._

## Myth2
_PrettierJS lives up to its claims._

## Myth3
_There are many legitimate reasons to use PrettierJS._

## Reason
An MIT study in 2012 analyzed over 60 code repositories and concluded that the 2 biggest factors in Code Readability are _File-Length_ and _Indentation_. PrettierJS, virtually the only code formatter used, completely destroys any sense of improving these metrics, indiscriminately, in a highly opinionated and inflexible manner. It also makes developers minds lazier in thinking about syntax while robbing Junior developers the opportunity to learn how to read other styles of coding as they imporove their own.

## The Proof In The Pudding
I have seen pull requests that used Prettier that turned an 11-line file into a 55-line file. Even [their Playground's landing page example](https://prettier.io/playground/) produces a 35-line "prettified" output from a 21-line input. That is far from nothing. This is mainly because the default Print Width of Prettier is 80-columns total. If you _must_ use Prettier, the Print Width should be at least 140 characters long.

### Real Results
These are real results run through Prettier.

#### Before (Normal)
```typescript
import { Reward } from './campaign';
import { types, labels, examples, descriptions, titles, details, ratios, models } from './types';

const { autoFnF, everyX, overY, bunuses, abCampains, points, costAwards, baseslines, miscrewards } = types;
const rewards = [
    new Reward({ type: autoFnF, label: descriptions[autoFnF], title: titles[autoFnF], details: details[autoFnF] }),
    new Reward({ type: everyX, label: descriptions[everyX], title: titles[everyX], details: details[everyX] }),
    new Reward({ type: overY, label: descriptions[overY], title: titles[overY], details: details[overY] }),
    new Reward({ type: bunuses, label: descriptions[bunuses], title: titles[bunuses], details: details[bunuses] }),
    new Reward({ type: abCampains, label: descriptions[abCampains], title: titles[abCampains], details: details[abCampains] }),
    new Reward({ type: points, label: descriptions[points], title: titles[points], details: details[points] }),
    new Reward({ type: costAwards, label: descriptions[costAwards], title: titles[costAwards], details: details[costAwards] }),
    new Reward({ type: baseslines, label: descriptions[baseslines], title: titles[baseslines], details: details[baseslines] }),
    new Reward({ type: miscrewards, label: descriptions[miscrewards], title: titles[miscrewards], details: details[miscrewards] }),
];

export { types, labels, examples, descriptions, titles, details, ratios, models };
```
> _A 17 LOC file_

#### After (Prettified)
```typescript
import { Reward } from "./campaign";
import {
  types,
  labels,
  examples,
  descriptions,
  titles,
  details,
  ratios,
  models,
} from "./types";

const {
  autoFnF,
  everyX,
  overY,
  bunuses,
  abCampains,
  points,
  costAwards,
  baseslines,
  miscrewards,
} = types;
const rewards = [
  new Reward({
    type: autoFnF,
    label: descriptions[autoFnF],
    title: titles[autoFnF],
    details: details[autoFnF],
  }),
  new Reward({
    type: everyX,
    label: descriptions[everyX],
    title: titles[everyX],
    details: details[everyX],
  }),
  new Reward({
    type: overY,
    label: descriptions[overY],
    title: titles[overY],
    details: details[overY],
  }),
  new Reward({
    type: bunuses,
    label: descriptions[bunuses],
    title: titles[bunuses],
    details: details[bunuses],
  }),
  new Reward({
    type: abCampains,
    label: descriptions[abCampains],
    title: titles[abCampains],
    details: details[abCampains],
  }),
  new Reward({
    type: points,
    label: descriptions[points],
    title: titles[points],
    details: details[points],
  }),
  new Reward({
    type: costAwards,
    label: descriptions[costAwards],
    title: titles[costAwards],
    details: details[costAwards],
  }),
  new Reward({
    type: costAwards,
    label: descriptions[costAwards],
    title: titles[costAwards],
    details: details[costAwards],
  }),
  new Reward({
    type: miscrewards,
    label: descriptions[miscrewards],
    title: titles[miscrewards],
    details: details[miscrewards],
  }),
];

export {
  types,
  labels,
  examples,
  descriptions,
  titles,
  details,
  ratios,
  models,
};
```
> _An 91 LOC file_

**This is _insanity_**.. A _17-line file_ vs a _91-line fire_. There was _nothing_ wrong with the 'Normal' version but the 'Prettified' version is almost 5.5&times; larger. As a consequence, the code that easily fit into a reasonable viewport and could be snapshot in a single glance now takes 3-4 touchpad scrolls to see what's in it. The Normal file is not the type of file that requires meticulous inspection either, it's a simple docket you understand after looing at the first entry. Instead, Prettier blew it out more than 5-fold and prepared it as if we need to be reading this on a smartphone. If that last 200-page novel you read used Prettier, it would've been a 1,060-page book instead.


## "An opinionated code formatter"
Other than "Has few options", "An opinionated code formatter" might be the only other truthful claim Prettier makes. It just surprises me, however, that in the age where developers base their selection of development frameworks around "opinionation" as a reason to discard one over the other, somebody would want _so much_ opinionation regarding their _syntax_.

_Syntax_ is actually something you _need_ to think about. Oftentimes, innovation happens through syntactical nuances that make something more performant. Otherwise, with so much code being naturally different, the developer needs a way to communicate with _The Future Developer_ why this code is different or equally format it in a more readable way based on that difference.


### Growth & Decay
Perhaps the most corrosive part of using Prettier is not that it simply makes experienced developers thoughtless about the syntax of the code they write but, even worse, **it robs Junior developers** of ever growing their ability to read another style of code. I've heard the argument that "that's why all you have to do is use Prettier for everything all the time forever, and it'll all be fine". An analogy for this type of argument might be: "_you don't need a healthy immune system if you always have the vaccine from the company that will always be around_". What if that company closes its doors? What if they change their serum? What if you just can't access it for 1 week? Will you still have _any_ clue how to survive? Without Prettier, do you have _any_ clue how to write readable & maintainable code? This is not just bad for Seniors and worse for Juniors, it is _bad for business_.

#### "Nits" (Nitpicks)
Good Seniors don't 'nit'. Usually, if a Senior has a nit, it's one to take into consideration. Juniors, on the other hand, are the most likely to be offended by nits. But nits are generally good.

## Why Prettier [Sux]?
The following are real excerpts from the ["Why Prettier?" Webpage](https://prettier.io/docs/why-prettier).

### "Building and enforcing a style guide"
_Linting_ enforces a styleguide. _Formatting_ automates the recorrective measure you take based on linting.

The opening section poses several [unverified] testimonials that scream _laziness_ and _burnout_ in addition to a lot of hurt feelings about "nits". “I don’t want anybody to nitpick any other person ever again.” It sounds like this person needs a hug and believes we're a lot closer to World Peace than we really are. In the opening testimonials, they even bring up **Steve Jobs**.

> _"It reminds me of how Steve Jobs used to wear the same clothes every day because he has a million decisions to make and he didn’t want to be bothered to make trivial ones like picking out clothes. I think Prettier is like that."_

I have a simple question: _Do you wear different clothes for different occasions at all_?

### "Helping Newcomers"
> _"I always put spaces in the wrong place, now I don’t have to worry about it anymore."_

This is rather tragic and they will never learn how to do this.

> _"When you're a beginner you're making a lot of mistakes caused by the syntax. Thanks to Prettier, you can reduce these mistakes and save a lot of time to focus on what really matters."_

Meaning, "beginners" know "what really matters".

> _"As a teacher, I will also tell to my students to install Prettier to help them to learn the JS syntax and have readable files."_

This is the most abominable one. In what world is that "teacher" helping them "learn the JS syntax"? I call "overworked, underpaid teach" on all of that.

### "Writing code"

> _"I want to write code. Not spend cycles on formatting."_
> _"It removed 5% that sucks in our daily life - aka formatting"_

Both of these express that the author has _way_ too much difficulty writing decent, readable code on their own, as also evident by the next testimonial.

> _"We're in 2017 and it’s still painful to break a call into multiple lines when you happen to add an argument that makes it go over the 80 columns limit :("_

Here's the solution: _an 80-column limit is the problem_.


### "Easy to adopt"
The only real merit found in the entire page comes from the following quote, which actually gives us a glimpse into the only time this tool should be used.

> _"The biggest benefit for Prettier for us was being able to format the entire code base at once."_

This is a legitimate use-case. If you happen to work with a project that has been so mismanaged -- no seniors, offshore team handoffs, to architect, no Defensive Coding practices, to styleguide -- just completely mismanaged; here's how to use Prettier: _use Prettier as a **reset**, either once ever or once every 6-months or so. Then, assuming you have seniors on your team, let the project take its way from there_.

The next section in Why Prettier support the previous statement.

### "Clean up an existing codebase"
> "Since coming up with a coding style and enforcing it is a big undertaking, it often slips through the cracks and you are left working on inconsistent codebases. Running Prettier in this case is a quick win, the codebase is now uniform and easier to read without spending hardly any time."

This section is the only one you need to read and doing this might actually help you & your team more than it'll hurt.

### "Ride the hype train" (Yes, that's a real section)
This section's testimonials range from kneejerk reactions to hilarity of coolness. But my favorite is this.

> _"I like to be part of the hot new things."_

### Synopsis
We've demonstrated that Code Formatters are _not_ good for everyone. They impact Seniors, especially impact Juniors, and even business at large. It largly falls short of making your codebase butter, unless your codebase is in a _very_ bad place to begin with. The only legitimate reason we found as a use-case for using Prettier is, if your project has become so mismanaged, it may make sense to run it over the entire codebase once, only as a reset.

The "reasons" and testimonials provided from the Why Prettier page largely don't hold up under any test. They exude laziness, neediness to be hip, and thin skins. What Prettier does is averages out your risk to the lowest common denominator. However, as we presented, this has major impacts on an individual's ability to write decent code when the power is out.

As if autocorrect has not made us all miserable enough throughout the past decade or more, Prettier wants to do it in your IDE. Even worse, we are now putting that all on steroids with AI, a tool that people say can "think". A myth we'll demystify later is AI, a tool that only "thinks" that it thinks.
