
The Native MFE Pattern &copy;
================================================================

## Myth 1
_You need a heavy framework like RSBuild, Module Federation, or similar to build a Micro Frontend Architecture_.

## Myth 2
_HTML and Web Technologies do not give us simple partials/includes_.

## Reason
I invented _The Native MFE Pattern_, turning The Web into a Plugin Architecture.
- You don't need an MFE Framework.
- The Web always had partials/includes.
- All you need is a webpage, GitHub Pages site, S3 Buckets, or any other CI/CD system.


## The Microfrontend Pattern &copy;

### Intent
Leverage `iframes` as self-aware services that externalize themselves as UI components in place of the original iframe element.

### Also Know As
- The MFE Pattern
- The Native MFE Pattern
- The Partials Pattern
- The Includes Pattern
- Remote Module Definition (RMD)
- Remote Component Definition (RCD)
- Remote Element Definition (RED)
- Web As Plugin Architecture (WAPA)

### Motivation
Cumbersome Microfrontend frameworks like RSBuild and Module Federation provide MFE functionality and scalability to large or complex websites and web applications alongside the tooling they provide.

But there's a problem with this approach: frameworks like these thwart their own scalability by requiring extra infrastructure, additional learning & developer onboarding, build & packaging utilities, and different plugins for each development framework, some of which may be custom for a particular use-case which causes more ifrastructure and learning curve. The Microfrontend Pattern describes how to leverage sandboxed Browsing Contexts so that clients written in virtually any framework (or native) can implement microfrontend architecture components & UI services across The Web.

### Applicability
Use the MFE pattern when
- you want to fractionate your website or webapp into disperate components.
- you want to separate your components into domains owned by different teams.
- you want sandboxed components that initialize in separate Browsing Contexts.
- you want to share components across multiple websites and webapps.
- you want to publish components & UI services for others across The Web to use.
- you want to consume components & UI services from others across The Web for your own use.

### Structure

     Site A
┌────────────────┐                           Site B                                    Site C
|  ⧉ App Shell  |                         ┌────────┐                                ┌────────┐
│       ⊡────────────────────────────────▸|  RMD ⊡────────────────────────────────▸|   RMD  |
|       |        |                         └────────┘                                └────────┘
└───────|────────┘
        |
        |
        ▾
    ┌────────┐
    │   RMD  │ Site A
    └────────┘

### Participants
- App Shell (Root Branch Node)
  - Defines its own MFEs (RMDs).
  - Consumes its own MFEs (RMDs).
  - Consumes other MFEs (RMDs).
- RMD (Branch or Leaf Node).
  - Defines a Document Fragment which an App Shell expects.
  - Replaces its `frameElement` with the Document Fragment.

### Collaborations
- The App Shell is a website or webapp that acts as the main host of RMDs. It is the Root Node and defines its own RMDs it wants to consume in addition to the option to consume RMDs from other sites.
- An RMD expects to be consumed by an App Shell or another RMD as a Document Fragment or some other type of UI service.

### Consequences
The Microfrontend Pattern
- Defines Document Fragment hierarchies of components & UI services into a composite, root node.
- Facilitates Lazy-Loading of RMD components & UI services.
- RMDs replace the existing frame or hide or move it to run _idly_ when the Browsing Context should continue run undisposedly.
- Advances The Web by connecting sites & apps in a federated manner for UI nodes, **turning The Web into a _Plugin Architecture_**.
- Facilitates _Skeloton UIs_ while components are loading.

### Implementation
There are specific tradeoffs to consider when electing to implement The Microfrontend Pattern.
1. _Partials & Includes_. Partials can simply select a DOM `Node` to serve the App Shell.
  - `Element`: e.g: `frameElement.replace( document.querySelector('{selector}') )`.
  - `Text`: a specific `Text` `Node` (or string) can be used to replace the frame.
  - `Attr`: an `Attr` `Node` can be attached to the `frameElement` to have a `MessageEvent` dispatched on it.
  - `Comment`: a `Comment` `Node` can be used to signal to a `MutationObserver` or otherwise in the App Shell.
  - `HTMLStyleElement`: a `style` element can be used to repace the frame to provide SDK styles or otherwise.
1. _Components_. a Web Component or one written in a different framework can be used to replace the frame. Components can leverage anything in their own Browsing Context such as `<template>`s, `<style>`s, `<script>`s, or any other faculty available.
1. _Frame Disposal_. frames can be hidden, moved, removed or replaced depending on whether the RMD needs the Browsing Context to remain undisposed for ongoing processes associated with that Browsing Context, if only so that errors do not get swallowed during development.
1. _Work Distribution_. applications & sites can be split among different teams so that they each can work on separate domains.
1. _Plugin Architecture_. plugins can be built for internal business purposes or collaboration between an organization & its clients.
1. _Performance_. Performance can suffer depending on idle frames. If all RMDs leave an idle frame, the number of DOM Nodes doubles.
1. _Slots_. usage of `HTMLSlotElement`s is generally unavailable because all `childNodes` of an `iframe` are stored only as `innerHTML` (and `innerText`). These can be 'resuscitated' into copies of the intended nodes and passed using _manual slotting_. **However**, consumers can define the expected Custom Element (with the iframe as a child) while injecting slotted children into the Web Component as normal. Services can automatically slot the [child] `iframe` into its Shadow DOM when preferable; otherwise, the iframe's selector can match `iframe[slot="disposal"]` for opt-(in/out) functionality by the consumer.
1. _Attributes_. attributes can be defined on the iframe that the provider expects. That is, the iframe can define a `DOMTokenList` for the `className`, `dataset` attributes, or any other which the provider can use for configuration.
1. _Skeloton UIs_. _Skeloton Pages_ and other UI _Skelotons_ can be automatically implemented simply by styling the iframes based on a targeted CSS Selector.

### Sample Code

#### App Shell
```html
<div class="my view">
    <iframe src="https://cors.enabled.app/public/v0.0.1/raw.element.html"></iframe>
    <my-remote-component></my-remote-component>
</div>
```

#### RMD
```html
<body>
    <template id="template">
        <h1>Remote Module Definition</h1>
    </template>
    <style id="style">
        :host {
            color: firebrick;
        }
    </style>
    <script>
        const { parent, frameElement } = window;
        const { customElements, HTMLElement } = parent;  // ensure is from parent frame
        const { log } = console;
        const TAGNAME = 'my-remote-component';
        const defined = !!customElements.get(TAGNAME);
        
        if (!defined) customElements.define(TAGNAME, class RemoteComponent extends HTMLElement {
            
            constructor() {
                super();
                this.attachShadow({ mode: 'open' });
                this.#setup();
            }
            
            #setup() {
                const template = document.querySelector('#template');
                const style = document.querySelector('#style');
                
                this.shadowRoot.appendChild(style);
                this.shadowRoot.appendChild(template.content);
                frameElement.remove();
            }
            
            connectedCallback() {
                log(`@REMOTE COMPONENT DEFINITION -> connected`);
            }
            
        });
    </script>
</body>
```

#### Output
```html
<div class="my view">
    <my-remote-component>
        #shadow-root (open)
            <style id="style">
                :host {
                    color: firebrick;
                }
            </style>
            <h1>Remote Module Definition</h1>
    </my-remote-component>
</div>
```

#### The Partial Pattern
##### App Shell
```html
<div class="my view">
    <iframe src="https://cors.enabled.app/public/v0.0.1/copyright.partial.html"></iframe>
</div>
```
##### RMD
```html
<body>
    <p class="content copyright">
        AsXS (and the owner of this website) reserves all rights to <i>"AsXS"</i>, <i>"Frameless"</i>, 
        <i>"The Micro Frontend Pattern"</i>, <i>"RED" & "Remote Element Definition"</i>, 
        <i>"RMD" & "Remote Module Definition"</i>, <i>"RMD" & "Remote Module Definition"</i> and associated trademarks. 
        Profitable use of these trademarks & patterns without consent of or code comment attribution to AsXS or website 
        author is strictly prohibited.
    </p>
    <script>
        const { frameElement } = window;
        const element = document.querySelector('.content.copyright');
        frameElement.replaceWith(element);
    </script>
</body>
```
##### Output
```html
<div class="my view">
    <p class="content copyright">
        AsXS (and the owner of this website) reserves all rights to <i>"AsXS"</i>, <i>"Frameless"</i>, 
        <i>"The Micro Frontend Pattern"</i>, <i>"RED" & "Remote Element Definition"</i>, 
        <i>"RMD" & "Remote Module Definition"</i>, <i>"RMD" & "Remote Module Definition"</i> and associated trademarks. 
        Profitable use of these trademarks & patterns without consent of or code comment attribution to AsXS or website 
        author is strictly prohibited.
    </p>
</div>
```

### Known Uses
Generally, no use cases exist at the time of this writing as it has only just been invented. However,

### Related Patterns
There are no related patterns to The Microfrontend Pattern.


### More Information

#### Enhancements

##### Interpolation
If not using a Web Components framework such as Lit, one may elect to use basic interpolation on the `<template>` and `<style>` elements' `innerHTML` before attaching them to the Custom Element's `shadowRoot`. This would allow you to leverage dynamic styling in your component, based on [say] attributes, where perhaps (if ever) native CSS Attribute Selectors were not an option.

##### Versioning
With a basic CI/CD system, RCDs can be deployed to specific locations that reflect a version of the component, allowing for graceful deprecation and iterative enhancements. In the example above, the RMD is published behind version `v0.0.1`, which can be a simple S3 Bucket or a simple folder in your GitHub Pages website.


#### Importance
The importance of this pattern cannot be overstated. This pattern, beside saving you from the headache of cumbersome MFE frameworks like RSBuild/RSPack + ModuleFederation, **turns The Web into a Plugin Architecture**. That is, anyone anywhere can publish and consume native Web Components that integrate with anyone else's website or webapp anywhere on The Web. It can be used for Custom Elements or simple partials. Authors can develop their own protocols & patterns, such as providing a sibling frame that loads a README for usage. However, _this pattern does come with certain security concerns that you and your team need to discuss if using RCDs from untrusted origins_.

#### Variants & Patterns
- Replacing the `frameElement` with a Web Component `Node` (instead of the View declaring it).
- Using attributes from the `iframe`/`frameElement` as parameters/communication for the custome element or other configurations.
- Using `<slot>`s with the `iframe`/`frameElement`'s `innerHTML`.
- Replacing the `frameElement` with a `Node` from the `<template>`'s `content` or another element (instead of the View declaring it) for loading simple partials.
- Calling a parent-frame script to define or load the element through a framework.
- Simply providing a `<template>` and `<style>`s.
- Providing a `<meta>` element whose `name` is a `tagName` for the parent frame to define (see Frameless&trade;).
- Providing a sibling README frame for documentation & usage.
- Simply replacing the `frameElement` with a `<style>` that loads an entire CSS framework.
- Simply replacing the `frameElement` with a `<style>` that loads different parts of a CSS framework.
- Many others.

#### Other Considerations
This pattern, generally, only works with native Web Components. Angular, on the one hand, does provide the ability to export components as native Web Components, which would allow teams to write in one syntax and still take advantage of this pattern. However, frameworks like React do not yet provide this capability at the time of this writing, in which case your team may but stuck with a cumbersome framework. That said, it is likely feasible that one can replace the iframe with a fully-functional React component, or likewise written in any other framework.

## A W3C Specification
...

## Synopsis
This pattern, while the RMD itself must be a Web Component, can be used in any app using any other framework because native is compatible with anything. It is a lightweight approach to achieving microfrontend architecture without cumbersome frameworks; all you need is a CI system. From there, the sky is the limit of what you can do as the Web Component author and the consumer need only know how the author expects or enforces its consumption. It can be used for Web Components, partials, atomic buttons and other components, or Feature-Complete Microfrontend views at large. Additional patterns & conventions will develop on top of this baseline pattern -- packaging & documentation conventions, Smart vs Dumb components & partials, and likely many others. Again, most frameworks & libraries are there simply to conceal a pattern and decieve the consumer into believing there is all sorts of "magic" happening behind the scenes that is usually a very small set of simple patterns.
