
The Native MFE Pattern &copy; W3C Specification
================================================================


## A Specification For The World Wide Web Consortium
While currently a simple pattern, the W3C could feasibly make this a native element rather easily. Before describing what that might look like, let's first describe what it might look like as a simple Web Component.

### A Custom Element
In reality, _The MFE Pattern actually spawned from a Custom Element before it was simplified to merely a pattern._ This originated from [Frameless, the MFE framework of AsXS](https://cscarlson.github.io/asxs). Here's how it is built.

#### Definition
While a full definition of this element exists from Frameless&trade;, we will attempt to only provide the minimal parts that describe the essence of what is necessary to define a Web Component that encapsulates The MFE Pattern to automatically implement the same functionality.

```typescript
export const TAGNAME = 'as-frameless';
export class FramelessElement extends HTMLIframeElement {
    
    #handleLoad(e: Event) {
        this.#initialize();  // [see next sections]
    }
    
    handleEvent(e: Event) {
        if (e.type === 'load') return this.#handleLoad(e);
        if (e.type === 'mfe:load') return this.#handleMFELoad(e);
    }
    
    connectedCallback() {
        this.addEventListener('load', this, true);
    }
    
    disconnectedCallback() {
        this.removeEventListener('load', this, true);
    }
    
};

customElement.define(TAGNAME, FramelessElement, { extends: 'iframe' });
```

#### Usage
Assuming the definition file above has been imported and run, the usage is straight-forward.

```html
<iframe src="{origin}/path/to/components/v1.0.0/my.component.html" is="as-frameless"></iframe>
```
> _NOTE: this assumes that a valid RMD definition exists at the `src` location of the iframe._

#### Implementing The MFE Pattern Using a Custom Element
The `#initialize` method above performs the basic operations that The MFE Pattern, itself, actually implements. We will abstract specific parts of the pattern to simplify things for the reader and also protect Intellectual Property of parties involved with the construction of The MFE Pattern and the AsXS framework. The algorithm is composed of only a few simple operations.

- Acquire the appropriate `template`, `style`, and `script` elements of the RMD.
- Run the code derrived from the `script` to define & register the element with the `customElements` API.
- Instantiate an instance of the element manually.
- Dispatch a message to the instance that the iframe also listens for, using a Race Condition, and conditionally replace the frame.

```typescript
export class FramelessElement extends HTMLIframeElement {
    get #tagName() { ... }  // abstracted ip. gets the tagName of the defined element.
    get #type() { ... }  // abstracted ip. gets the type of the RMD. e.g: "element" | "partial" | "service" | "{etc}"
    
    ['handle:element']() {
        const { document: parent } = window;
        const { contentDocument: document } = this;
        const { template, style, script } = this.#acquire();
        const defined = this.#define(script);  // abstracted ip
        const Component = customElements.get(this.#tagName);
        const instance = new Component({ template, style, frame: this });
        const event = new MessageEvent('mfe:load', { data: instance });
        
        instance.addEventListener('mfe:load', this, true);
        instance.dispatchEvent(event);
        
    }
    
    #initialize() {
        const { [`handle:${this.#type}`]: handle } = this;  // map to hook for specific type
        if (handle) handle.call(this);
    }
    
    #aquire() {
        const template = document.querySelector('template');
        const style = document.querySelector('style');
        const script = document.querySelector('script');
        
        return { template, style, script };
    }
    
    #handleMFELoad(e: MessageEvent) {
        if (!this.isConnected) return;  // assume the instance already replaced this iframe.
        if (e.target.isConnected) return;  // if the frame is still connected AND the instance is, the instance wants to run idle.
        const { data: instance } = e;  // e.target === e.data.instance
        
        this.#replace(instance);  // abstracted ip. assumes the component should not run in idle mode.
        instance.removeEventListener('mfe:load', this, true);  // auto unsubscribe
    }
    ...
};
```
> _Operations for type "partial" and "service" have been delibaratedly omitted for the reader as their simplicity is simpler to implement by nature._
> _Operations for `#tagName` and `#type` have been delibaratedly omitted for simplicity and IP purposes._

This basically gets us to where we need to go as far as using a Custom Element goes. We can use several methods, even making them each a fallback for one another, to determine what the `#tagName` and `#type` getters return.

- A `mata` tag of he child frame whose `[name]` attribute reflects the tagName and/or its `dataset` property providing the type.
- Leveraging the child frame document's `body`.
- Setting these properties on one or more of the template, style, or script elements inside the RMD.
- Assuming index at which each exists in the RMD document's body.

However, while this works excellent for Web Components and static Partials, there are several drawbacks of using a Custom Element for this.

- The `as-frameless` element must be a dependency of consumers wishing to implement The MFE Pattern through the element.
- Coming up with conventions the Custom Element expects constrains providers across The Web to those conventions.
- The Custom Element jumps through small hoops to decide whether or not the child frame should be disposed.
- Running the RMD's `script` can be complex based on what is in the script, and insecure if using `eval`.
- The Custom Element is generally married to assuming it always knows the ways in which an RMD is composed.
- It limits RMD elements to always being instantiated in JavaScript or has to decide whether or not to do so. This creates issues for
  - Slotting
  - Attributes of the RMD's Web Component.

While there are certainly ways to get around these caveats, with or without specific or generic conventions or protocols, it would be a lot easier if we had the help of the World Wide Web Consortium to implement a standard, native element that could drive the standards, interfaces, and conventions around The MFE Pattern.

### Native W3C Specification

#### Usage
Ideally, HTML would merely add a reserved `Attr` that all Custom Elements use, alongside a reserved element that could leverage/resuse that same attribute internally. The attribute intrinsically bears all security protocols reflected by a normal `iframe` element.

##### Reserved Custom Element Attribute
```html
<my-element some-attribute="normal custom element attr" src="{origin}/path/to/components/v1.0.0/my.component.html">
    Some default slot text.
    <span>Some more default slot text</span>
    <span slot="specific">Text for specific slot<span>
</my-element>
```

A reserved `src` attribute (or otherwise) could automatically implement The MFE Pattern for any unrecognized Custom Elements. From there, a reserved native element can be used for Partials and Services.

##### Native `HTMLRemoteElement`
```html
<service src="{origin}/path/to/components/v1.0.0/my.component.html" />
```

The service element can be used as a shortcut that does not assume much but delegates virtually everything to the RMD by default. However, the `HTMLRemoteElement` bears an optional `type` property which can be used for 2 different types of RMD.

- "`partial`"
- "`--{custom}`"

###### Partials
Partials can be simple, static content or be used with `HTMLSlotElement`s.
```html
<service type="partial" src="{origin}/path/to/components/v1.0.0/my.component.html" />
```
```html
<service type="partial" src="{origin}/path/to/components/v1.0.0/my.component.html">
    Some default slot text.
    <span>Some more default slot text</span>
    <span slot="specific">Text for specific slot<span>
</service>
```

##### Custom UI Services `HTMLRemoteElement`
While a mere `service[src]` element always runs a Browsing Context, not unlike in The MFE Pattern itself, a custom value can be provided to the RMD's scope, perhaps as a new attribute of `frameElement`.

```html
<service type="--my-service-type" src="{origin}/path/to/components/v1.0.0/my.component.html" />
```

A typical use-case for this might be to manually bootstrap RMDs built in other frameworks such as React and Angular.

```html
<service type="--react:button:primary" src="{origin}/path/to/components/v1.0.0/my.component.html" />
```

The `HTMLRemoteElement`'s `type` recognizes any value that begins with `--` (double hyphen). While the `type` is always available to the RMD's scope, it namespaces current and future reserved words for the type to avoid collisions, allowing future built-in types to be created for built-in native behavior while always delegating behavior of indefinite custom types 100% to the RMD. This allows an escape hatch where RMD authors can always jailbreak away from native-based assumptions to implement The MFE Pattern by hand, covering any nuances they may have for specific use-cases.

It does not seem unrealistic to say this seems 100% feasible for the W3C to provide. The parts we did not yet cover are

- How an `HTMLRemoteElement`'s `type` is transfered to the scope of the RMD.
- The `type` an RMD receives if it is a Custom Element.
- What the interfaces look like for the RMD, itself.

While a Custom Element RMD would have the same access to the `type` and its value would be `element`, the type can be conveyed in a number of ways. It could be a new property of `window`, get transfered to the `frameElement`, or many other ways.

The interface of specific RMDs, such as a Custom Element or a Partial, could be implemented a number of different ways if we want automatic behavior. Otherwise, conventions should be able to be broken if the RMD author simply wants to implement the RMD more by hand, querying for a template & style before registerring the Custom Element.

At least, a convention on an `HTMLScriptElement` might suffice to facilitate this specification. A script tag could feasibly be written as `script[type="text/rmd"]`. This would allow the script to have limited scope to the parent window, allowing the script to call `window.customElements.define` as opposed to `window.parent.customElements.define`, much less having to chain multiple `.parent`s for RMD's being consumed by multiple other RMDs that make up those RMDs. That is, accessing `customElements` from a `script[type="text/rmd"]` would always return the root window's `customElements`. Basic Recursion can be used for such return value.

##### Most Importantly
Most importantly, what the W3C implementation would provide is the ability to maintain certain aspects of the separate Browsing Context so that, when 'a frame is disposed', it does not completely destroy that Browsing Context. Rather, things like `setTimeout`s, console logs, errors, and others continue to exist without being swallowed when the frame is disposed.

Additionally, a Custom Element with a `src` or any `HTMLRemoteElement` can automatically receive basic styles that simply provide a gray background before the frame's `load` event is dispatched. This would automatically provide UI _Skeloton_ nodes, useful for any network latency. Developers can simply change the background color using `service, [src]:not(:defined) { background: #ddd }`, add animations, or other CSS treatments for the RMD before loading.

## Closing
While this article is more food for thought than an explicit, technical specification, the proof is there that it can be accomplished via The Microfrontend Pattern. Let this serve as inspiration for you to define a fully native Custom Element that implements the pattern smoothly, or let it serve as inspiration to write a full, technical spec for how the W3C can provide this for us. Either way, many conventions and subpatterns may likely develop on top of The Native MFE Pattern, which we can start using now. The next article describes some of those conventions & subpatterns that may assumably begin to bear fruit.
