
Closing Thoughts
================
Phew... We made it. This is the end of the book. If you made it to this point, you've got some grit. It may not have been delightfully thrilling to hear and see all the ways that all these players in the technology sphere are trying to pull the wool over your eyes with

We started off demystifying simple libraries and frameworks, demonstrating how easy & quick it is to leverage the simple patterns underneath them and e showed how small & terse the code is to actually implement them.

After that, we looked at unpopular opinions that paved a gradient between those frameworks & patterns, into coding standards, linting, and formatters. We showed how some of these misconceptions have risen from poor practices of Coding Bootcamps before arguing that the Bootcamp industry has largely deceived us in more ways than just that. Beyond that, we drew a soft connection between that industry lie and one that is current, the AI industry, making the case that there are plenty of warning signs we're being deceived again.

Finally, we offered you some oxygen for hanging in there so patiently. We provided a formal, Gang Of Four style specification of The Microfrontend Pattern which demystifies the myth that The Web does not have partials while giving you a fully native way to achieve a Microfrontend Architecture with virtually no barriers & overhead for additional infrastructure. Technically, we demystified the hypothetical myths of "you need an MFE framework to build an MFE architecture" and "The Web is not a Plugin Architecture".

Whether you fully agreed with various thoughts, ideas, and opinions in this collection of articles, I hope you got plenty of use out of it. We need more software developers to apply the Critical Thinking skills we've tought ourselves for our jobs to a broader sense about various related industries, what their motivations are, and what the actual product they are selling is. This goes for not just AI or Bootcamps but the companies & individuals behind these libraries & frameworks as well. While, yes, I am likely earning revenue from this book, I am not trying to do it at your own expense. The difference is: I am trying to free you from traps while the others seems to be trying to lock you in.

If you found this useful, please feel welcome to reach out to me on LinkedIn.

Thank you,

Cody Carlson, Principal UI Architect
https://www.linkedin.com/in/cody-s-carlson-1b837259