
Credits
================
This time has come to wrap this thing up. Before we do, I'd like to list those who helped make this collection of articles possible, beyond just 'shout outs' used as loose work citings.

Personally, I would like to thank

### The Reader
This was _not_ a small order. It took grit to get through all of this. There was plenty to increase one's blood pressure in this book, whether you respectfully disagreed, totally agreed, or took it all in as just more information to dial yourself into a broader perspective with. Props to you, reader. Wear this book like a badge on your wall for having gotten through the tough parts.

### Julio Parra Sanchez: Technical Proofreader, Senior Frontend Developer
A brilliant frontend and fullstack engineer I've had the pleasure to work with at an AI startup advertising company. As a Junior at the time, he led our team in spirit and attitude, beside inexplicable professinal skill growth. We remain well-connected friends to this day.

### [Juan] Germán Arrieta: Technical Proofreader, Fullstack Developer
Similar to Julio, built some of the most complex AI-backed UIs that provided Mission & Safety Critical software which supported multiple Mission Partners & branches of the United State military (redacted), various Space Exploration organizations, energy sector clients, other Aerospace & Defense NGOs, National Defense NGOs, Weapons Development, and others not limited to LMGs & SMGs (LAZER/Satelite Guided Munitions) and SMRs (Small Modular Reactors).

### Alfredo Diaz: Technical Proofreader, Lead Backend Developer
Just like Germán, Alfredo was our backend leader. Alfredo, not much unlike Germán, helped us to build some of the most complex AI-backed UIs that provided Mission & Safety Critical software which supported multiple Mission Partners & branches of the United State military (redacted), various Space Exploration organizations, energy sector clients, other Aerospace & Defense NGOs, National Defense NGOs, Weapons Development, and others not limited to LMGs & SMGs (LAZER/Satelite Guided Munitions) and SMRs (Small Modular Reactors).

### Noah Winkler, Cover Designer, Graphic Designer, Profession Poker Player & Avid Entrepreneur
My beloved brother in law who helped give this book color between the lines and catch your eye. Noah knows everything.

### My Wife
Never gives up on me.

### Other Friends & Family
You know who you are. Noah also knows who you are and that you know who you are.

### My Pets
Ok, are you gonna set this book down finally or what???

### The Person Still Reading This
> "_What about the Lysine Contingency?... We could put that into effect!_." <br> ~ Muldoon
