
The Class Domain Chaining Pattern: CSS Modules and The CDC Pattern
================================================================

## Myth
_You need a CSS Module framework to impose strict scoping on your CSS to restrict it to a single Trinity Module_.
> _Here, "Trinity Module" simply refers to a Frontend module composed of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript_.

## Reason
Following a simple pattern of **Domain-Driven Design & Modeling** within the CSS for your modules eliminates the need for CSS Modules, eliminates the need to decide between BEM, OOCSS & SMACSS, while striking a better balance of _CSS Specificity_ and providing more human readable `classNames` that loosely reflect that general Markup structure the component was intended to have.

## The Class Domain Chaining Pattern
The CDC Pattern consists of a parent element with a particular _domain_-identity as its chief token in the element `className`'s `DOMTokenList` _as the 2nd token in the `className`'s `DOMTokenList`_. The _first_ token in the DOMTOkenList takes that chief identifier of its parent's domain-identity. Optionally, an element can have a _third_ token in its className, used as a modifier class. For those familiar, this entire structure is similar to BEM -- _Block Element Modifier_ -- where the following are roughly equivalent.

- _Block_:      _Parent Domain_
- _Element_:    _Element Domain_
- _Modifier_:   _Modifier_

The key difference with CDC vs BEM is that the "Block" (in CDC, "Parent Domain") is used to loosely scope a nested element's Specificity to its parent, **drastically avoiding naming collisions** while striking a flexible but rigid enough balance of Specificity for each element. This creates a scoping strategy that is unique to each domain while allowing underlying elements the flexibility to closely resemble those from a different domain when necessary without the creation of the repeated selectors across any two domains. As an added benefit, this pattern naturally causes your HTML & CSS code to become more Human Readable.

### Exceptions
- Root Element: the root element does not have a Parent Domain to reflect that is visible in the same code, so it may predict what that Parent Domain actually is; the most common Parent Domain for this case, the global header, is "`app`".
- The modifier namespace may leverage multiple tokens.

#### Modifiers
More than one _modifier_ class can be used. This may be due to necessarily more specific elements that have a similar sibling or when you simply want a larger composite className identifier to avoid conflicts.

Wrappers and other types of containers may be used, post-writing/structuring, that can break out of the main flow of chaining for any given element.

In extremely rare cases, when a selector's CSS Specificity happens to be more difficult to override, you can simply employ the standard CSS Specificity Hack of repeating one of the tokens that make up the selector's identity; e.g: `.app.header.header.main` (Specificity `4` instead of `3`). This tends to be very rare, however, when this is necessary.

## Synopsis
The CDC Pattern nudges the developer into striking an optimal CSS Specificity, loosely scoping elements to their parent, expressing selectors in Human Readable format, and saves you from having to come up with your own naming-conventions. Overall, this virtually **completely eliminates the need for using a CSS Module framework**. This is an easy transition for those already familiar with BEM, but with a much less cringy syntax. Similar to BEM, The CDC Pattern strikes an optimal balance of CSS Specificity between _avoiding selector collisions_ and _overriding defaults_. Lastly, reading the CSS file loosely conveys what the markup structure is, in a predictable and obvious way, without strongly coupling to markup structures that may likely change, other than the creation of wrappers; this radically enhances the developer's comprehension of the module, just by looking at the CSS file.
