
Side Effects & Mediation
================================================================

## Myth
_You need a library like Redux Saga, Thunk, or otherwise to handle Side Effects_.

## Reason
What you want is _mediation_ (see The Mediator Pattern) and oftentimes a simple wrapper function will suffice.

### React Mediator Example
```typescript
import React, { createContext, useReducer, Dispatch } from 'react';
import { reducer } from './reducer';
import { user as $user } from '**/services';

const DEFAULT_STATE = { ... };
const Context = createContext(DEFAULT_STATE);

function useMediator() {
    const [ state, dispatch ] = useReducer(reducer, DEFAULT_STATE, state => state);  // todo: run through middleware
    const mediator = mediate({ state, dispatch });
    return mediator;
}

function mediate({ state, dispatch }) {
    const token = '';
    
    return async function publish(action) {
        const { type, payload } = action;
        
        switch (type) {
            case 'TOKEN:FOUND':
                token = payload;  // set in memory here. keep protected.
                return;  // do nothing
            case 'USER:SETTINGS:CHANGED':
                const response = await $user.settings.update(payload, { token });  // make an async call before hitting reducer
                return dispatch({ ...action, payload: response });  // replace payload
            default: return dispatch(action);
        }
    };
}

export { DEFAULT_STATE, Context };
export { useMediator };
```

### Standard Event-Driven Mediation
Every app should leverage an _Application Head_ of some kind. This absorbs complexity throughout the rest of the system, allowing subdomains to remain lightweight & portable. Using a standard [Event-Driven] mediator not only is the best way to handle side effects but also allows developers to write their own _CELs_ (_Custom Event Loops_). By interjecting on the dispatch and running it through an _Interjection Handler_, the handler can then make roundtrips to the server before storing the response data in a store and then continuing the Event Loop on the same channel. This makes it possible, for example, for a UI component to listen on the same channel that a Call To Action uses to dispatch an ID before the listener gets back hydrated data that actually originated from the server.

### Defining Channels
The recommended anatomy of a channels docket is this.
- An object that maps an interface key, the _Channel Key_, to a _Channel Value_.
- Channel Key: A fully-qualified, uppercase, colon-delimited object key made of nouns and one verb.
  - Starts at the root domain.
  - Indefinitely narrows down the scope in subdomains.
  - Ends with a verb in one or more conjugations, preferably the same one, usually past tense or a _Derivational Suffix_ ('tion, 'sion, etc). Examples for such suffixes are
    - `...:SELECTION`
    - `...:REVISION`
    - Derivational Suffixes can also precede a past tense conjugate when necessary.
 - Channel Value: a URL-looking value that starts with a domain-id and a pathname that begins with the verb used in the key, with all subdomains as segments of the pathname thereafter.
   - All text is typically lowercase.
   - Having URL-like Channel Values allows you to scale toward more performant subscriptions that allow for higher or lower domains to be subscribed to.

## Synopsis
As you can see, all we need to do is wrap our `dispatch` function and we save ourselves from pulling in external dependencies. There really is no need for most applications -- even at scale -- to pull in something that you don't have control over that, as you'll see, also doesn't do much to require it as a 3rd-party package in the first place. Later on you can break this out into different Contexts; ones that might even inherit some of the behavior of this one. If that's the case, you may want to leverage an object or class for your action-type handlers instead a `switch` block. #avoid-switch-blocks

If not using React, it is dead simple to create a standard Event-Driven mediator that, beyond handling side effects, also gives us a system for leveraging CELs (Custom Event Loops). A mediator such as this can even be broken out into _Domain Heads_ for subdomains of our app, even using _Compositive Mediation_ and using Liskov Substitution so that lower domains don't know the difference between the Root Mediator (Application Head) and their own domain's mediator (Domain Head). This pattern scales indefinitely and is especially useful for complex lower domains where you need low level operations & data to aggregate before bubbling up higher-level data from the Child Mediator to that domain's Parent Mediator.
