
Frameworks, Libraries and Toolchains Demystified
================================================================
Why You Think You Need a Framework (When You Don't)

We are not saying all frameworks, libraries, and SDKs are bad, unnecessary, or useless. We dare to claim, and prove throughout this book, that so many times you think you need one are because a developer **disguised a _pattern_ as a framework**. We'll use the terms 'framework', 'library', 'package', 'SDK', and more interchangeably for the most part throughout this book. All we really mean is _a 3rd-party piece of software that helps developers accomplish one or more goals_.

Here are the chief reasons that you do _not_ need most frameworks:
1. You naturally lack experience with particular challenges.
1. You have not read this book yet.
1. Many types of malware or ransomeware have exploited Zero-Day vulnerabilities to impact organizations through packages.
1. Bootcamps lied to you.

The first reason is completely acceptable, before some point in one's software engineering career. The second reason, in our opinion is completely unacceptable, but I can see you are actively working on that one. The fourth reason is the most unacceptable; we will cover this later toward the end of the book when we demystify _that_ whole subject.

The first several articles are accompanied by formal Software Design Pattern specifications whose structure reflects the same structure as seen in The Gang of Four's infamous book. The rest of the articles after that are informal patterns or formal _approaches_ aimed at making your life easier and less dependent on 3rd party sources.

The articles with formal patterns are
- "Reactive Store": The Reactive Store Pattern
- "Side Effects & Mediation": The Custom Event Loop Pattern
- "Internationalization": The Translation Pattern

The articles thereafter do not fit neatly into formal Design Pattern specifications which is why we think of them more as _approaches_ than a _pattern_. For example, in "The Class Domain Chaining Pattern", the more formal identity for it is a "Frontend Design System _Methodology_". Therefrom, we get deeper into broader approaches, such as "Mock-Driven Development" before arriving at styleguides, Defensive Coding, formatting, and industry myths.
