
Metastyleguide
================

## Myth 1
_A Styleguide needs to tell developers what they should never do_.

## Myth 2
_A Styleguide needs to tell developers what they should always do_.

## Reason
Styleguides that are too strict diminish productivity while those too loose do not guide style enough.

## Styleguides that are either too strict or loose
Everybody has see one or the other. The upside of "too loose" is that it can always be hardened over time; this is what is recommended if you must choose between the two. The downside of "too strict" is that it becomes dogmatic law that nobody will ever let go of -- even when it makes sense to. Once that styleguide is official, _you are locked in_. What's worse is that it will shave off, say, 10% of one single developer's productivity -- beside the amount of time wasted in code review when perhaps what the developer did was perfectly fine. Lop off 10% of 10 developers' productivity and you just threw a whole man-hour down the drain. Do that 10 times a day for a week and you just lost a whole day of productivity. You can see the scaling law at play here.

Oftentimes in a too-strict styleguide you'll see and hear a lot of "NEVER do this" and "ALWAYS to that". A psychopath wrote that. That's not a _guide_, that's a _dictatorship_. The only time your styleguide should say "always" and "never" are the following.

### The First Rules of Every Styleguide
> - Never use "always" and "never".
> - Always use "prefer" and "avoid".

Those are probably the only two times you should use it. The fact is, all these things they're saying always & never about are actually features of the language. I can think of several typical cases that, if used in the right circumstances, are very powerful.

##### ~~"Never use `var`"~~
`var` is useful for Hoisting and reassignment.

```javascript
function validate(data) {
    var valid = true
      , valid = valid && validateA(data)
      , valid = valid && validateB(data)
      , valid = valid && validateC(data)
      , valid = valid && validateZ(data)  
      ;
    return valid;
}
```

##### ~~"Never use `==`" (Double-Equals / Loose Equality / Type Coercion)~~
Type Coercion is a feature of the language and it is more helpful than harmful if you simply add a comment next to it

```typescript
class SomeComponent {
    target: string = '-1';
    
    constructor(private router) {
        this.target = router.params.id;
    }
    
    handleEdit(e, id: number, modifications) {
        if (id == this.id) dispatch({ type: 'ITEM:EDITED', payload: modifications });  // ==
        else toast("You're not allowed to edit this item");
    }
    
}
```

##### ~~"Never use `eval`. Eval is Evil!!!" and "Never use `new Function`s"~~
Ok, yes. You do need to be careful with this one. But there is noting wrong with using it in completely controlled settings.

```javascript
const { constructor } = object;
const { name } = constructor;
const instance = eval(`new ${name}()`);
```

##### ~~"Never use `with`"~~
Some things can **only** realistically be accomplished using `with`.


## Examples of Preferred Approaches
Other than syntax, a styleguide may elect to outline preferences for common approaches to common challenges.

### Toggles, Option Groups, and File Uploads
##### 1 Prefer _Stateful Buttons_
Prefer The Stateful Button Pattern. Stateful Buttons (or elements) stretch a transparent input across a button (or other element).
##### 2 Prefer `input[id="{id}"][type="{type}"] ~ label[for="{id}"]`
Otherwise, prefer using labels that control hidden inputs. Similar to the above but inputs' display is none. Can be used with CSS `flex-direction: column-reverse`.
##### Avoid Manually Tracking State

### File Downloads
##### 1 Prefer `a[download="{filename}"]`
Using an anchor is simpler and can tell the OS what the preferred filename is.
##### 2 Prefer _Ghost Frames_
A Ghost Frame is a hidden UI Service `iframe` which, on action, can programatically be changed to point to a URL where the browser will automatically trigger the download.
##### Avoid XHRs/AJAX for File Downloads


These are all features of the language and there is no reason not to use them at certain times. Again, a solid styleguide would say "prefer" or "avoid". The styleguide's original author may have carefully phrased it with "always" & "never" so that he or she could _let things slide_ when there's a good reason. But they left the company 8 years ago and now all the Seniors who once were terrified Juniors now all worship the Always Never God. When you actually grant someone a little bit of freedom, you might just learn something from the approaches they take. If we're all into diversity, let people be diverse.

But what about styleguides that are too loose? Those are absent styleguides, but you can at least harden it over time. A styleguide's evolution should be long and enduring. Don't jump up and try to create the perfect styleguide right out of the gates tomorrow. Create a blank sheet first. After a few code reviews have gone by and you, the lead, andor the rest of the team have decided something is impacting the code negatively -- go ahead! Write it down! We're not saying you cannot come out of the box with only a few rules of thumb. But it doesn't have to be complete upon its arrival. Let it breath a little. Let it simmer. The more important stuff to keep your code healthy is not exactly styleguide stuff, per se. It will actually be how well you write _Defensive Code_ (see article).

It is also better to have slightly higher-level guidance, such as for "stateful buttons" and "file (up/down)loads" (above), for example. These do not steal so much productivity from the team while promoting simpler solutions that better serve the application architecture alongside things like Performance, ADA Compliance, or others. The frequency which a developer has to stop to adjust to syntax is virtually constant and, we as software engineers, already have to hold the context of what we're writing in memory at several scales -- syntactical, modular, architectural, linguistically, temporal, and arguably _many_ more. That is why, in the following chapters we make the case that code formatters like Prettier, Code Bootcamps, and Big AI all fall short of their claims.

## A Word On Linting
It is worth mentioning that the metastandards in this article should generally apply to Code Linting as well. In fact, much of Code Linting spans across this article's subject matter and through the next articles around "Defensive Coding" practices and Code Formatting. As for Linting, itself, most teams should become used to writing their own Custom Linting Rules after reading the next several articles.


## Synopsis
We made the argument and gave examples of why striking a less heavyhanded balance for your styleguide is better and why starting out with less is actually more. We made the case that strict styleguides will make your team less productive and offered examples of "higher-level" guidelines & standards that support your application architecture as opposed to obstructive syntactical dicta that incur neuropathy. In the next articles, we expand on notions from this article in the context of Code Formatters vs Defensive Coding as it implicitly applies to Linting and custom rulesets.
