
Framework Testing Frameworks
================================================================

## Myth
_You need a testing framework for testing modules written in the framework you're using_.

## Reason
Tests should be lightweight and not test the framework's lifecycle boudnaries anyway; your framework author already has those tests.

## Lightweight Tests
Tests should be lightweight and easy enough to write that developers are not discouraged from writing them. In fact, the heaviest Unit Tests I've seen were testing things that either already exist or should only exist in a Functional Test. Oftentimes, you cannot fully test a component because, as a good thing, it was leveraging CSS as much as possible. This is where Functional Tests come in. Otherwise, I see Unit Tests that use the development framework's own test utilities so that all component lifecycle boundaries can be tested; **these tests already exist in that framework's repository!** We ought to be able to trust that lifecycle hooks work will always work in the framework and discard those concerns from our own tests. The biggest culprit I tend to see wasting people's time is Angular, but they almost all do it.

### Rules Of Thumb For Testing
- Keep them lightweight.
- Never test lifecycle boundaries.
- Unit Tests for all basic IO operations and states driven by them.
- Functional Tests for anything that mimics a User Action.

### Example
Say we are using Lit. Lit requires a `render` method that returns a template. If we were to test a DOM Element we wrote with Lit, it should necessarily look more like the following.

#### `@app/children/**/*.test.ts`
```typescript
import { render } from 'lit';
import { MyElement } from './*.element';

describe(`My Element`, () => {
    
    it(`should have default state X reflected in its HTML`, () => {
        const instance = new MyElement();
        const html = render(instance);  // calls instance.render() among other things
        const event = new MouseEvent('click');
        const spy = spyOn(instance, 'handleClick');
        
        instance.innerHTML = html;
        instance.handleEvent(event);
        
        expect(spy).toHaveBeenCalledWith(event);
        expect(instance.shadowRoot.querySelector('.my.input').checked).toEqual(instance.checked);
        expect(instance.checked).toEqual(true);
    });
    
});
```
> _Assumes a click event ultimately changes the state of the component, thus effecting what its next render will be._

#### Antipattern: `@app/children/**/*.test.ts`
```typescript
import { superDooperRenderLifecycleHarness } from 'lit';
import { MyElement } from './*.element';

describe(`My Element`, () => {
    
    it(`should have default state X reflected in its HTML`, () => {
        const api = superDooperRenderLifecycleHarness(MyElement);
        const event = new MouseEvent('click');
        const spy = spyOn(instance, 'willUpdate');
        
        api.stageClickEvent();
        
        expect(spy).toHaveBeenCalledWith( api.mockClickEventObject() );
        expect( api.magicallyGetInputStateSomehow() ).toBe(true);
    });
    
});
```
> _Assumes the framework will do all sorts of magic behind the scenes for us and diminishes transparency while we make sure `willUpdate`, a framework-specific method, is always called whenever the framework decides it should be._

## Synopsis
This is about as far into the weeds of the DOM as we probably want to get in a Unit Test and, instead, let our Fn Tests pick up the more DOM/User heavy testing. In our Unit Tests, however, we want to just keep invoking methods, checking on the component's state from an encapsulation standpoint and keep checking to see what the HTML output is. We may leverage `Element.prototype.dataset`, `Element.prototype.classList`, or other properties of its subtree, but nothing too complex. Save the complexity for the Functional Tests instead. We don't need heavier apparatus around testing that will ensure the framework works as we ought to be able to assume. That is just more "stickiness" technology providers have shoehorned into your workflow for Product Lock-In.
