
Mock-Driven Development (MDD)
================================================================

## Myth1
_You need a framework like Axios for HTTP Requests_.

## Myth2
_You need a framework like Storybook for Playgrounds and Component Catalogs_.

## Myth3
_You need a framework like Sentry or LogRocket for logging & telemetry_.

## Reason
All of these disrupt Mock Driven Development practices.

## What Is MDD?
MDD is the strategy of employing heavy use of mocks in all approaches of software development from the outset. The benefits are numerous and solve many of the problems that plague us on the frontend.

### Benefits of MDD
- Development Velocity: tighter feedback loops while building, running, and writing tests.
  - Cross-network calls: fetching data is instantaneous.
  - Control over data: when you have control over what the data looks like, you require fewer feedback loops to write code.
  - Tests: Unit and Functional Tests reuse the same data as your catalog/playground (see below).
- Fault Tolerance: running the UI against mocks before real data discovers hidden anomolies in your code you were unaware of.
  - API outages: backend teams can work in parallel, making breaking changes, without impacting the UI until you go live (locally).
  - Network outages: ISP outages, VPNs, and other problems do not lower development velocity.
  - Airplane Mode: developers traveling on airplane need not pull the company card out for onboard wifi service.
- Quality Assurance: QA Engineers are happier when they can spoof operations in different environments.
  - State Loaders: Console APIs can be built for different environments so QAEs can instantly jump to specific user flows & states.
- Component Catalogs/Playgrounds: developing in a playground makes your code more portable when running it live (locally).
  - Stakeholder Transparency: providing a Component Catalog to your Product or Design team leads to cross-team productivity. 
  - Debugging: debugging in a playground/catalog allows you to tweak mimic production issues easier.
- Testing: mock data can be reused across different tests and different types of tests that run faster.
  - Unit Tests: Unit Tests can use the same data from your catalog.
  - Functional Tests: Fn Tests run as fast as possible and so can replace many of your heavy, cumbersome Unit Tests.
  - Smoke Tests: Smoke Test all of your components from a single component catalog.
  - Flakiness: MDD narrows test flakiness down to those only related to differences in environment.
- Telemetry: easily implement flexible telemetry & logging across any environment.
  - XHR: interjecting on network operations reduces side effects collected in telemetry services.
  - Logging: by always import and swapping out the `console` object per env eliminates the need to upgrade logging subscriptions.
- CI/CD: faster CI systems can be build without infrastructure to setup tokens, containers, and other configurations.
  - Pull Request Gating: quickly reject PRs that don't pass a test.
- Demo-Safe Instances: Developers, Product Owners and Sales personnel can safely demo instances that do not humiliate the company.

As you can see, we overcome _many_ of the common plagues we as frontend developers experience -- portability, entropy, fault tolerance, ... the list is massive. Here's roughly how to employ this approach.

### NPM `package.json` Scripts
Create scripts that act as an _Ignition Key_ for all relevant environments.

```json
{
    ...,
    "scripts": {
        "tst": "framework run --env tst",
        "tst:test": "test run --env tst",
        "mck": "framework run --env mck",
        "mck:test": "test run --env mck",
        "lcl": "framework run --env lcl",
        "lcl:test": "test run --env lcl",
        "dev": "framework run --env dev",
        "dev:test": "test run --env dev",
        "stg": "framework run --env stg",
        "stg:test": "test run --env stg",
        "prd": "framework run --env prd",
        "prd:test": "test run --env prd",
    },
    ...
}
```

### Environments
Use an environment `type` driven from the CLI.

#### `@environment/index.ts`
```typescript
import { environment as mck } from './env.mck';
import { environment as dev } from './env.dev';
import { environment as stg } from './env.stg';
import { environment as prd } from './env.prd';

const { env } = process;
const { type } = env;

export const { [type]: env } = {
    'tst': mck,  // use mock for test
    'mck': mck,
    'lcl': dev,  // use dev for local
    'dev': dev,
    'stg': stg,
    'prd': prd,
    '':          prd,  // use fallback for missing env type
    'null':      prd,  // use fallback for missing env type
    'undefined': prd,  // use fallback for missing env type
};
```

### Normalize Against `fetch` and `console`
Ditch Axios and other tools that `fetch` already resolves. Beside, security vulnerabilities have already been discovered in Axios and other 3rd-party packages.

#### Always Import `fetch`
##### `@core/utilities/http/fetch.ts`
```typescript
import { env } from '@environment';
import { default as json } from 'raw!@mocks/http/my-reponse.json';

const { TYPE } = env;
const { fetch: native } = window;
let fetch = native;

async mock(input: URL | RequestInfo, init?: RequestInit): Promise<Response> {
    return new Response(JSON.stringify(json), { status: 200 });
}

if ({ 'mck': true, 'test': true }[ TYPE ]) fetch = mock;

export { fetch };
```
There are basically 3 ways to implement the actual mock data.
- hardcode various `new Response`'s (not recommended): mock imports are carried into bundle.
- serve a static directory: you must use folder/file naming conventions and append "`.json`" to fetch URLs.
- Web Worker (recommended):
  - the worker only gets attached in `mck` mode.
  - intercepts `fetch` events.
  - imports mock data that never gets bundled.
  - can use conventions for if the mock is a `Response`, `Request` (makes request), or a `function` (that returns a `Response`)

#### Swap Your `Console` Object
##### `@app/utilities/telemetry/index.ts`
```typescript
import { env } from '@environment';
import { console as mck } from './env.mck';
import { console as dev } from './env.dev';
import { console as stg } from './env.stg';
import { console as prd } from './env.prd';

const { TYPE } = env;

export const { [TYPE]: console } = {
    'tst': mck,  // use mock for test
    'mck': mck,
    'lcl': dev,  // use dev for local
    'dev': dev,
    'stg': stg,
    'prd': prd,
    '':          prd,  // use fallback for missing env type
    'null':      prd,  // use fallback for missing env type
    'undefined': prd,  // use fallback for missing env type
};
```

The benefit of always importing your console this way is that you can control what specifically gets output in each environment and divert or mute different data and telemetry. It is recommended to also use this with a convention in your invocation signatures so that the first parameter of is always `@{env}`, where `{env}` is either `mck`, `dev`, etc. Muting a log is as simple as an Early Return and diverting your telementry to a service is just as easy. Another nice thing about this approach is that your entire codebase simply calls `console.log` without caring what the actual logging strategy behind it is; so you can even swap out your production telemetry service with a different provider if your subscription price increases.

##### `@app/utilities/telementry/console.dev.ts`
```typescript
import { Console } from '@core/utilities/telementry/console';
export const console = new (class DevConsole extends Console {
    log(id: string, ...splat: any[]): void {
        if (id === 'too') return;
        if (id === 'much') return;
        if (id === 'console') return;
        if (id === 'noise') return;
        super.log(id, ...splat);
    }
})();
```

##### `@app/utilities/telementry/console.prd.ts`
```typescript
import { Console } from '@core/utilities/telementry/console';
export const console = new (class ProdConsole extends Console {
    log(id: string, ...splat: any[]): void {
        if (id === 'token') return;  // no-no
        super.log(id, ...splat);
    }
})();
```

## A Word On The Abstract Factory Pattern
As you may already notice, we are beginning to [loosely] implement **The Abstract Factory Pattern**. The Abstract Factory Pattern does what _The Factory Method Pattern_ does but on a larger scale. That is, it uses a "Factory" that provides _Families_ of modules as opposed to a distictly different _individual_ module. While each _file_ loosely implements The Factory Method Pattern, as a whole, our app receives an entire "family" of modules by simply importing each one as necessary.

## Synopsis
We demonstrated why you generally don't want to spring for a framework that does everything `fetch` already can. It is tougher to normalize against a library that you do not control, know little to nothing about its internal workings, or may change at the whim of personnel not on your team. Wrapping your telemetry service and importing your `console` at the beginning of a project can save you from expensive subscription price increases when you cannot afford to refactor unwrapped invocations all over your codebase. Once you have your 'Environment Factory' setup, you can easily build out something like a _HashRouter_ that uses CSS `:target` for showing and hiding elements in a _very_ plain Playground that speeds up development and acts as a Component Catalog which stakeholders can view for feedback, testing, technical User Story details, and refinement. Ultimately, the more you employ these techniques across a Mock Driven Development approach, the more benefits you'll stack up from the list in this chapter's opening.
