
CSS Libraries Written As JavaScript Libraries
================================================================

## Myth
_You need a JavaScript framework such as `@angular/material`, `@material-ui/*`, or otherwise_.

## Reason
80-100% of the purpose of your company's "Internal SDK" is aesthetical.

- It is largely a marketing ploy for a broader framework ecosystem to make it more "sticky" for Product Lock-In.
- The library was usually written by someone with a lack of frontend experience.
- The JavaScript library rarely bears proper CSS-selector hooks.
- It is majoritively to align your Design team's outcomes across the organization cohesively.
- CSS, especially at the time of this writing, accomplishes even most _behavioral_ aspects of your Design System goals.
- CSS prefers to use the GPU whereas JavaScript prefers the CPU to accomplish the same goal.
- CSS naturally provides a more declarative syntax than JavaScript can.
- Separation Of Concerns: mixing more data-logic in with your UX-logic makes your JavaScript less readable.
- Your Design System might change and, if mixed in with data-logic, makes your software more susceptible to error.
- Better Graceful Degradation.
- CSS will have a smaller code footprint.

### Example: A Toggle Button
Oftentimes, you'll see some sort of "Toggle" system from a JavaScript library that should be a CSS library. This can be accomplished in several ways, generally speaking.

- `focus`
- `focus-within`
- _Stateful Buttons_

#### A Basic Solution
```html
<span class="sdk popover">
    <button class="popover actuator">&bigstar;</button>
    <div class="popover envelope">...</div>
    <span class="popover deactuator">$times;</span>
</span>
```

```css
.sdk.popover {
    position: relative;
    &:focus-within {
        
        .popover.envelope {
            display: block;
        }
        
        .popover.deactuator {
            display: block;
        }
        
    }
    
    .popover.envelope {
        position: absolute;
        display: none;
        &[data-position="southeast"] {
            top: 100%;
            right: 0;
        }
    }
    
    .popover.deactuator {
        position: absolute;
        inset: 0;
        display: none;
    }
    
}
```
> _An inline-block container encapsulates a button that provides its width & height. The button naturally absorbs `focus` when selected. The `focus-within` selects the `envelope` to be displayed. At the same time, the `deactuator` follows suit and covers the display `actuator`. Because the deactuator is not a focusable element, clicking displaces focus, causing `focus-within` not to be a pseudo-class state anylonger._

#### Stateful Buttons
In cases where your Design team needs multiple actions to maintain their state simultaneously, Stateful Buttons are an excellent option.

```html
<span class="stateful button">
    <input class="button receiver" type="checkbox" />
    <button class="button decoy">Press Me</button>
</span>
```

```css
.stateful.button {
    position: relative;
    
    .button.receiver {
        position: absolute;
        display: block;
        width: 100%;
        height: 100%;
        opacity: 0;
        z-index: 1;
    }
    
    .button.receiver:checked ~ button.decoy {
        background: green;
    }
    
}
```
> _We simply stretch an invisible `input[type="checkbox"]` over what the user only thinks they're interacting with. This works with `input[type="radio"]`, `input[type="file"]`, and any others you can imagine (even for invisible `select` boxes). This can be coupled with any number of other states you want to drive off of the `:checked` state of the hidden input, not limited to triggering dropdowns_.

> _NOTE: roughly the same thing can be achieved using `label[for="{id}"]` + `input[style="display: none"]`. Both depend on the preferences of you or your Design team, sometimes both. You can even use both strategies alongside CSS's `flex-direction: column-reverse` to ensure you always have your `input`s in the right order to leverage sibling selectors (`~` & `+`)_.

##### Main Benefits of The Stateful Button Pattern
- Higher/quicker Development Velocity.
- ADA Compliance: keyboard navigation is the most expensive to have to fix later.
- Power User empowerment.
- Testing: less to test when you piggyback off of native functionality.
- Making forms look nicer; you can use `input[type="radio"]` to get buttons to behave as a group instead of messy tracking of states using JavaScript.

## Synopsis
We showed a couple of quick CSS patterns that have sky-high limitation, if any, while likely eliminating most-to-all of the need you thought a JavaScript library was satisfying. Once you master these basic concepts, you realize the importance of JavaScript's `activeElement` and can better help your Design team avoid costly mistakes that impede the engineering team. You'll start seeing that **the UI is not just a bunch of clicks & graphics, but a series of atomic _states_**. You can mix in more complex selectors, use Pseodo Elements, start using CSS for the things _it's best at_, and start using JavaScript for the things it is best at.
