
#### The Experience
Thank you for your interest in my professional services. I am Cody Carlson and I am a Web Developer & Software Engineer. This has been my passion for over fifteen years and has encapsulated skills & experience in startups, entrepreneurship, Solutions Engineering, Webpage Design, User Interface & User Experience Design, Frontend Architecture, being a traveling WCAG/508 Compliance Consultant, and even managing & running teams of my own.

#### The Reality
Online website builders always claim utter simplicity but unfortunately never live up to their promise. Should it be so hard to attain a basic Web Presence and scale as you go? The answer is an utter 'NO' (and I could hold my finger down on the exclamation key). But you do need someone in your corner who knows how to navigate these waters without getting caught by the undertow -- and it is a strong undertow. Not everyone can be an expert in technology while dedicating their focus to their profession. Not everyone who can, has the privilege of time they can commit to its mastery. I can do this because my profession _is_ software.

Usually I offer my skills & experience to large organizations that require intensive scalability in their technology because they experience intensive scaling in their business. These companies have usually hit escape velocity, some only liftoff. Whatever the case, these organizations are typically propelled by a metric ton of Angel Investment before they ever see any clearance. This is _not_ everybody. Many of us are simply looking to have a basic Web Presence and scale from the ground up. That is where I come in.

#### The Mission, The Solution
With a wide breadth and long depth of skills & experience on my toolchain, I have set out to engineer solutions for those of us without our own monetary Mint. The amount of clients I have helped move themselves to the first floor -- and then the next -- accounts to a very fulfilling mission: providing professionals with the ability to break away from the corporate grid~~lock~~ and become more self-sustainable in their career. The promise I can make to my clients is that I will always fight to find the most affordable solution with the highest quality product and be your technical sidekick along the way.

#### The Process
After filling out <a href="#/contact">the form</a>, you'll be contacted by a member of our team to set up a (free) initial consultation. During the initial consultation, we will discuss what your Web Presence needs are. After this, we will be back in contact after assessing the technical implications of the project requirements and provide you with a hard & fast quote. While more accurate _soft quotes_ may be ballparked by the end of the initial consultation, when you see the final quote it should still roughly resemble the soft quote at consultation time. Note that _some_ back & forth may be required at this point and, for any changes in requirements, a new hard quote will be issued. After written agreement, you may be asked for any & all digital assets required for the project -- text/copy, images & logos, branding data, video & audio files, external links & social media handles, and any other files & documents or particularities that are part of your site's makeup. We try to allow our internal designers perform the task of _Professional Theming, Layout & UI/UX Design_ for the quickest turnaround. However, if you have adamant requirements around those aesthetics, **it is necessary to bring this up during the initial consultation**. Otherwise, our professionals will assume the task and any changes will be billed accordingly.

If this sounds like what you've been up against, I encourage you to help me help you by sending me a ping on <a href="#/contact">the form</a>.
