
`Prettier === Dirtier`
================
It is no revelation that [PrettierJS](https://prettier.io/) has taken the world by storm. This article describes the reasons why it is not a good idea to use it. The article goes over several concerns before, ultimately, looking at the "Why Prettier" article from Prettier's website.

## "Opininated"
Right there, front page on the Prettier website it states that it is "an opinionated code formatter". That isn't necessarily a bad thing but here's why I know everyone who says it's the best is full of it. Those same people are the ones who you'll hear saying "I hate Angular because it's so OPINIONATED". Soooo... let's spring for Prettier?

## Prettier's Original Author
Prettier's original author, James Long, didn't even have hardly any noticeable JavaScript experience when he created Prettier. This may explain why Prettier is chalk full of JavaScript antipatterns built into its formatting.

## Prettier's Formatting is Antithetical to JavaScript's Conventions
Since _when_ has it been ok in JavaScript to break a function invocation's arguments list of, say, 3 parameters over 5 lines? Here's what I mean...

##### NOTHING WRONG WITH THIS CODE
```javascript
utilities.eventbus.publish(constants.events['TODO:COLLECTION:CHANGED'], changes, { debounce: true });
```

##### "Prettier"?
```javascript
utilities.eventbus.publish(
  constants.events["TODO:COLLECTION:CHANGED"],
  changes,
  { debounce: true },
);
```
This is heinous! I would _much_ rather Prettier gave me a strong warning or error (configurable) that said "consider changing the arguments list to an Object-Literal for `publish`'s signature".

## It Doesn't Even Do The Job It Says It Does
It says it saves you time. It doesn't. It says it saves you cycles. It doesn't. How many times have you Prettied your code on <kbd>Ctrl + S</kbd> and pushed it up just to have the GitHub Actions Prettier Linting system throw "errors" on things that Pretter formatted itself. That may be more of a matter of incongruent rulesets between your IDE and Actions. Nonetheless, it is still something you have to take time to contend with -- usually at length.

## Indiscriminately Performs Its Tasks
##### NOTHING WRONG WITH THIS CODE
```typescript
async function handleChange(e: Event) {
    const { target } = e;
    const { dataset } = target;
    const { id, type, owner, transactionStatus, availablePreference, events, inputs, warnings } = dataset;
    const instructions = { 'true': true, 'false': false, 'undefined': false }[ warnings ];
    const data = { id, type, owner, transactionStatus, availablePreferences, events, inputs, warnings: instructions };
    const payload = { type, data };
    const response = await services.send(payload);
    
    if (!response.ok) throw new Error(`...`);
    eventbus.publish(...);
}
```

##### "Prettier"?
```typescript
async function handleChange(e: Event) {
  const { target } = e;
  const { dataset } = target;
  const {
    id,
    type,
    owner,
    transactionStatus,
    availablePreference,
    events,
    inputs,
    warnings,
  } = dataset;
  const instructions = { true: true, false: false, undefined: false }[warnings];
  const data = {
    id,
    type,
    owner,
    transactionStatus,
    availablePreferences,
    events,
    inputs,
    warnings: instructions,
  };
  const payload = { type, data };
  const response = await services.send(payload);

  if (!response.ok) throw new Error(`...`);
  eventbus.publish("...");
}
```
What is God's name was Prettier thinking? _This_ is supposed to be _better_??? I also had wrapped the keys for the inline-map of `instructions` so that they would stand out as 'stringy' type of `warnings`. Can I at least keep my destructured variables on the same line? If that line is two long you can always split the variable between two different destructures of the same value.


## Bad for Juniors
Juniors should be learning how to read other people's code, familiarizing with other coding styles. If, say, a fancy new "Handsomer" formatting tool comes out in growing popularity that (en)forces a different coding style -- those Juniors (maybe Seniors at that point) are more than likely going to have a hard time.

## Insane Linting Messages
### Springboard and Catch-22 Dictates
This is where you push code up and get an "error". You then fix the "error" and repush. Then, there's an "error" telling you to change it back. THERE IS NO REMEDY TO THIS UNLESS YOU TURN PRETTIER OFF.

### Large-Sweaping Formatting for Single-Character Changes
Similar to the above but, instead, Prettier asks you to make one tiny little change on a single detail -- perhaps a single character or something. You make that change, push the code up again, and to your suprise Pretter does _not_ like this -- not one bit. Rather, because of that _one_ tiny little detail, Pretter wants you to reformat 10-20 additional lines (which, frankly, had nothing wrong with them in the first place).

## Lowest Common Denominator
The Prettier versions of the code samples above are not much better than the typical heinous code. It _is_ a slight step up, usually, and it certainly is better than some of the worst offenders. But it's _not_ much better. Prettier basically makes pulls up those worst offenders to a _Lowest Common Denominator_ bar of standards, but it also pulls down all the decent code to the LCD -- much more the _good_ code -- much much more the _well written_ code. So, great, you now have no _bad code_ -- but now all you have is _sub par_ code that still causes all sorts of other issues.

## The Pro-Prettier Arguments
### Self-Contradicting Arguments, OCD vs Selfishness

#### Human vs Program Delegation
"I just don't like someone telling me my syntax is off. If it works it works". So you like a _program_ telling you instead. I, personally, would much rather have a person making that judgement case by case. If they are a Senior, they probably have a good point. If a Junior, well, that's a great learning opportunity for them.

#### Everyone Likes Their Own Code But Not Anyone Else's
I've heard people say "everyone likes their own code but not anyone else's". That's not true. Seasoned professionals, while maybe more firm in their stance, _do_ like other people's code and are usually willing to learn from others. But, ok, let's entertain that argument for a moment. So, "because _I_ can't have _my_ way -- _nobody_ gets _their_ way". This is a pretty playground way of thinking, pretty childish and selfish.

## Pull Request Transparency
Unless you already have the entire project running on Prettier, if you have a pull request that just got 'Prettified' (i.e. clobbered), you loose a _lot_ of transparency in the diffs. You likely can't make heads or tails of _what_ actually changed in the file unless it's relatively small and|or you originally wrote it. Really, the whole thing will get clobbered and you'll just have to trust that there are, say, no attack vectors in the code -- that only necessary changes were made (beside the unnecessary Prettier changes).

## Code Formatting is About Communicating to The Future Developer
Code formatting & readability is about communicating to The Future Developer -- even if that is you in 6 weeks -- and Prettier misses this _entirely_.

## [Why Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/why-prettier). Why not?
Let's look at the "Why Prettier" article released by Prettier in order to convince us lousy nonconformist to just get in line. But first, let's take a quick side-track...

### The 3 Forms of Speech (Aristotle) 
Before we get into it, let's cover one small topic that is almost always relevant to any topic -> - especially when it comes to persuasion.

The Greek Philosopher, Aristotle, argued that there are basically only three forms of speech

> - Logos: logic
> - Ethos: Ethic
> - Pathos: Pathology

Here is what we mean when referring to the above...

#### Logos
Appealing to logic to get the point across. For example, a car salesperson saying "I know you've done your research and know exactly what you want to look at so I'll take you to those and talk about the specifications and technical tradeoffs with you". This often is going to speak to a particular part of the brain, usually something like the Prefrontal Cortex and Left Hemisphere.

#### Ethos
Appealing to ethic to get the point across. For example, a car salesperson saying "You talked about being Vegan so you might be pleased to know that this car's seats are not leather". Ethos may speak to different parts of the brain relating to either logical (see Logos), emotional (see Pathos), or both.

#### Pathos
Appealing to emotion to get the point across. For example, a car salesperson saying "So, I know this one _isn't_ exactly within your budget. But... can you imagine how cool you'll look pulling up in _this_ thing?!". Pathos is going to speak to the particular parts of the brain that regulate emotion such as the Limbic System or the "Reptilian Brain". This is especially of interest to somebody trying to manipulate you rather than present information for you to come to your own conclusion.

Now that we understand these forms of speech, I am going to look at _every_ single statement or assersion made in the "Why Prettier" article.

### "Building and enforcing a style guide"

### "By far the biggest reason for adopting Prettier is to stop all the on-going debates over styles."
The statements under "The Pro-Prettier Arguments" stand by themselves and against this assersion.

### "It is generally accepted that having a common style guide is valuable for a project and team but getting there is a very painful and unrewarding process."
"A very painful and unrewarding process"? It certainly doesn't have to be painful at all. See section "metastyleguide". It only becomes painful when people become dogmatic. And "unrewarding"? What do they consider unrewarding? Code Reviews? More maintainable code? Project success? If it was unrewarding, why would anyone do it in the first place?

### "People get very emotional around particular ways of writing code and nobody likes spending time writing and receiving nits."
This is mostly true. People do get _extremely_ emotional. Well, the dogmatic types certainly do. And "nits" (nitpicking on syntax)? Well, sure, if it is _true_ nitpicking. But probably three-forths or more of "nits" are actually warranted and a lot of people might even appreciate the thoughtful feedback. Again, what causes problems is when people are _dogmatic_. If somebody "nits" on someone else's code during a review, we should all be mature enough to: (a) understand why and what benefit was intended by the code, (b) **be able to see a "nit" and say "I see their point but I prefer this other tradeoff" or "I see their point and I like that better"**, and (c) **say to ourselves "I'll share my nit with them and they can take it or leave it but, honestly, I don't care. That's _their_ decision, _they_ wrote the feature -> - _not_ me"**.

### "... Prettier is the only “style guide” that is fully automatic"
This is not necessarily a good thing. [Simone Giertz](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC3KEoMzNz8eYnwBC34RaKCQ) has domonstrated that "fully automatic" does not mean you automatically _want_ it [<sup>[read more](https://www.businessinsider.com/this-woman-is-building-terrible-robots-2016-2)</sup>]. Moreover, calling Pretteir a "style guide" not a decent description. It take the "_guide_" out of styleguide. A better description might be a "style _dictator_" or a "style _lock_".

### "Even if Prettier does not format all code 100% the way you’d like, it’s worth the “sacrifice” given the unique benefits of Prettier, don’t you think?"
How about 100% they way none of us like. Sacrifice? Where do they talk about the sacrifices? As far as I can tell, they are not really concerned with addressing them. "Unique benefits"? Again, the unique benefit is 100% to do with making sure it is 100% adopted and forced upon everyone. In fact, fanboys might say "Prettier's only flaw is that not _everyone_ uses it". Which, I believe we can all agree, is nothing short of what someone in a Cult would say. It only speaks to the dogma and extremism of the speaker.

#### The "Unique Benefits"
> - “We want to free mental threads and end discussions around style. While sometimes fruitful, these discussions are for the most part wasteful.”
>   - Freeing that mental thread is not a good thing. You can also use a tool to free the mental thread of making the Business Logic align with the task's specifications! But that might mean your code doesn't align with the business logic. Moreover, I am rarely actually putting _first-nature_ focus on my code's readability anymore these days because it has become so _second-nature_ for me; and I write pretty darn clean code 99% or the time. These "sometimes fruitful" discussions that "are for the most part wasteful" are, again, as much wasteful as the amount of dogma you inject into your process.
> - “Literally had an engineer go through a huge effort of cleaning up all of our code because we were debating ternary style for the longest time and were inconsistent about it. It was dumb, but it was a weird on-going “great debate” that wasted lots of little back and forth bits. It’s far easier for us all to agree now: just run Prettier, and go with that style.”
>   - These statement **wreaks** of dogmatism. The person going through the "huge effort of cleaning up [the code]" is the embodiment of the _exact_ problem we are talking about. Alongside, they obviously have zero practice of the "Scout's Rule" on this: "_Leave it better than you found it_". In other words: _don't change the code unless you come in natural contact with it_. This person, likely their team at large, has a Junior mentality with an _extreme_ affect of OCD. Remember: _you put the 'O', 'C', and 'D' in 'CODE'_. In addition, this statement ends with a total copout: "[now we don't have to discuss important parts of software engineering]"
> - “Getting tired telling people how to style their product code.”
>   - GREAT. STOP! Make a suggestion and be at peace if they don't do _exactly_ what _you_ want them to do. Quit trying to control other people.
> - “Our top reason was to stop wasting our time debating style nits.”
>   - GREAT. STOP! _You_ are the only one who can waste your own time.
> - “Having a githook set up has reduced the amount of style issues in PRs that result in broken builds due to ESLint rules or things I have to nit-pick or clean up later.”
>   - Again, "style issues". Stop trying to control _other peoples'_ style. Try easing up on the ESLint rules as well. That said, if you're commited to doing something stupid, at least you've automated your stupidity, which is ever so slightly not _as_ stupid. The only downside is that after you write, push, and repull your own code it will look like a relatively competent Junior wrote it and be completely unrecognizable (causing you to have to reaquaint yourself with it).
> - “I don’t want anybody to nitpick any other person ever again.”
>   - Wonderful... So _just_ **stop**, for GOD SAKE.
> - “It reminds me of how Steve Jobs used to wear the same clothes every day because he has a million decisions to make and he didn’t want to be bothered to make trivial ones like picking out clothes. I think Prettier is like that.”
>   - Well, there you have it. Use Prettier because Steve Jobs secretly slept at the office. This person is literally comparing their own intellect to that of Steve Jobs. Or, at least, they're saying everyone who uses Prettier is more like Steve. Also, they are saying that using Prettier is like turning off your brain when it comes to readability. Look, I am totally fine if Prettier perfomed it's intention _stylishly_. The difference is that: _Steve Jobs didn't wear a tattered Spedo into the office every day_. Prettier _does_ ~~allow~~ force you to wear the same clothes into the office everyday. But that's all it is: a tattered Spedo. Lastly, this person seems to have no sense of _style_ at all when it come to either clothing or coding.

##### Summary
These "unique benefits" don't seem so much to be "benefits" as they are 5 personal opinions (one or 5 from one person). These are rather weak at best. At worst, they sound like whiney excuses made by the exact people who cause the issues in Code Reviews in the first place -- dogmatic, OCD ridden, highly nonliberal personalities. Again, these people are the ones who "nit" and whine and complain until they get their way. They cannot stand it when someone's coding style does not scratch every one of their itches. They advocate Prettier because they are too lazy to put time into building the skill of reading other people's code and Prettier actually _improves_ the way they write code since they never built the skill in the first place. So, rather than fighting their peers with logic & reasoning, they get their way by simply fighting to get the Prettier system imposed upon all of their peers in every shop they ever work in.

### "Helping Newcomers"
#### "Prettier is usually introduced by people with experience in the current codebase and JavaScript but the people that disproportionally benefit from it are newcomers to the codebase."
I doubt that "Prettier is usually introduced by people with experience in the current codebase" and especially those with much JavaScript experience. I don't know where they pull this information from but I am doubtful. In fact, Prettier's formatting is oftentimes antithetical to the JavaScript language's standard practices (see above). Secondly, "the people that disproportionally benefit from it are newcomers to the codebase" is patently false. See above about "Bad for Juniors". Incoming Seniors likely receive no benefit as they are already acustomed to reading other coding styles.

#### "... we've seen it quicken the ramp up time from experienced engineers ..."
That barely says anything at all and it says nothing for the majority of cases. I've also see a Grizzly Bear ballance a Bowling Pin... doesn't mean they usually do that.

> - “My motivations for using Prettier are: appearing that I know how to write JavaScript well.”
>   - YES! YES! Hitting the nail on the head here. _They don't know how to_. They want to _appear_ to. But, again, it's not appearing to write it "_well_", Prettier pulls everything down to the lowest common denominator.
> - “I always put spaces in the wrong place, now I don’t have to worry about it anymore.”
>   - This is pitiful. Put them in the _right_ place. _Learn_. Build a _skill_. So, because _you_ struggle to put a space in the right place, you impose a tool upon your _whole_ team that puts **tons** of spaces in the wrong places. [facepalm]
> - “When you're a beginner you're making a lot of mistakes caused by the syntax. Thanks to Prettier, you can reduce these mistakes and save a lot of time to focus on what really matters.”
>   - When you're a beginner you should be building skills. You should be learning how to read other coding styles -- just like you had to do for your professor, just like you had to do initially for Prettier's formatting style. As a beginner, you should be _welcoming_ mistakes so you can learn from them. When you're a beginner focusing on _learning_ is what "really matters". As a beginner, _you don't have a clue what "really matters"_.
> - “As a teacher, I will also tell to my students to install Prettier to help them to learn the JS syntax and have readable files.”
>   - Not a bad idea. But here's the problem... They also need to learn how to read other people's coding styles. You might even be doing a disservice to them learning "the JS syntax". As a teacher, you also supported one of my points: _Prettier only improves the code when the people writing it have no clue about how to write decent code, much less write it very well_.

##### Summary
More weak arguments. Sounds like people without a clue about what they're doing in the first place. That said, I could see myself "as a teach" just trying to get through the simester and sacrificing my student's education for my own sanity in that environment. Fair enough.

### "Writing code"
#### "What usually happens once people are using Prettier is that they realize that they actually spend a lot of time and mental energy formatting their code."
I agree. Write, commit, push, run lint checks, get a ridiculous Prettier "error", fix it, repush, get another silly "error" message, rinse and repeat 20 times before it is "Pretty" enough to make it to staging. It doesn't save time unless you 1010% wholly commit yourself, you team, your project, and your process to being "Prettier".

#### "With Prettier editor integration, you can just press that magic key binding and poof, the code is formatted. This is an eye opening experience if anything else."
It sure it eye opening. A lot of things you don't actually want to see _are_ eye opening. My eyes open wider when using Prettier because one or both of my eyebrows raise. So to use Prettier -- beside having to agree with it -- I also must have it configured in my IDE, in my commit hooks, in my CI/CD process, and who knows where else. It has to be everywhere for me to use? Even my teammates' machines?

> - “I want to write code. Not spend cycles on formatting.”
>   - They're just restating things they already stated here. Then learn how to write code. Learn how to read code. Making your code more readable is not an "empty cycle".
> - “It removed 5% that sucks in our daily life - aka formatting”
>   - Again. Build the skill and it will be second-nature.
> - “We're in 2017 and it’s still painful to break a call into multiple lines when you happen to add an argument that makes it go over the 80 columns limit :(“
>   - Right. Don't enforce an 80 column limit; that's ridiculous. Also, I can't imagine the strain it must take on the pinky finger to have to hit that Return-Key too much. I mean, that's your Pinky-Promising finger for goodness sake. Moreover, if you're stuffing that much crap into an `arguments` list -- object-literal style or not -- you should break that out into a variable somewhere above the invocation in the first place. This is just a complaint about coding and maybe even an argument in favor of a less string ESLint ruleset.

### "Easy to adopt"
#### "We've worked very hard to use the least controversial coding styles..."
I would hate to see any of your work where you slacked off a little then.

#### "When you're ready to push Prettier into your codebase, not only should it be painless for you to do it technically but the newly formatted codebase should not generate major controversy and be accepted painlessly by your co-workers."
Right, it is pretty easy to onboard. You just need to integrate it with you IDE... and|or your commit hooks... and you CI/CD tasks... and then impose it on all of your coworkers. Simple. It "should be painless". Yeah, for _you_, the one who cannot survice without it. It "should not generate major controversy and be accepted painlessly by your co-workers". Sure... keep telling yourself that.

> - “It’s low overhead. We were able to throw Prettier at very different kinds of repos without much work.”
>   - Yes, you just need it _everywhere_ but, sure, relatively low overhead overall.
> - “It’s been mostly bug free. Had there been major styling issues during the course of implementation we would have been wary about throwing this at our JS codebase. I’m happy to say that’s not the case.”
>   - It _is_ the bug. Fire statement though. I'm happy they're happy. They must've had one heck of a heinous codebase if Prettier improved it so much.
> - “Everyone runs it as part of their pre commit scripts, a couple of us use the editor on save extensions as well.”
>   - To each their own. But it certainly still sounds like Prettier was arbitrarily imposed on the entire team just because one person couldn't survive without it.
> - “It’s fast, against one of our larger JS codebases we were able to run Prettier in under 13 seconds.”
>   - Great. It looks like this person might be using Prettier the best way. _**If** a codebase happens to become too unwieldy, say, because a **ton** of people including multiple on or offshore teams were working in it, run Prettier over the whole codebase once so as to pull everything into the lowest common denominator of readability -- and then leave it alone (unless it happens again)_. It might be a good strategy to run Prettier over an entire codebase once every 6-24 months, depending on how many people are touching the code from week to week.
> - “The biggest benefit for Prettier for us was being able to format the entire code base at once.”
>   - Perfect! Run it over the entire codebase from time to time. When the amount of good or decent code starts to become eclipsed by the bad code, run it! You'll get right back to the lowest standard possible for readable code.

### "Clean up an existing codebase"
#### "Since coming up with a coding style and enforcing it is a big undertaking..."
But it _isn't_. You do it as you go along. It is perhaps one of the smallest undertakings you could achive in the realm of collaborative coding. It is only a "big undertaking" if you let it overtake the rest of your work. Give it space to breath. Give it space to evolve.

> - “Take a look at the code :) I just need to restore sanity.”
>   - This is laughable what _pure rhetoric_ this is.
> - “We inherited a ~2000 module ES6 code base, developed by 20 different developers over 18 months, in a global team. Felt like such a win without much research.”
>   - Wonderful. Yes. Perfect (and probably only) usecase for Prettier. Do _that_ (and then turn it off).

### "Ride the hype train"
Haha! What?! This is so laughable. This is pure rhetoric -- pure _pathos_ talk. "Everyone else is doing it, man".

#### "Purely technical aspects of the projects aren’t the only thing people look into when choosing to adopt Prettier"
Totally true. That's the issue. Glad they finally admitted it.

#### "Who built and uses it and how quickly it spreads through the community has a non-trivial impact."
Again, some more Cult-sounding language here.

> - “The amazing thing, for me, is: 1) Announced 2 months ago. 2) Already adopted by, it seems, every major JS project. 3) 7000 stars, 100,000 npm downloads/mo”
>   - A LOT of things can be popular AND bad at the same time. I'm thinking... IDK, Auschwitz circa 1930?... That was a popular camp.
> - “Was built by the same people as React & React Native.”
>   - That doesn't sweeten the deal for me. React is really good but it also encourages plenty of bad practices and antipatterns for JavaScript.
> - “I like to be part of the hot new things.”
>   - If that's your highest standard you would've worn a lot of stripes in Germany circa 1930 then.
> - “Because soon enough people are gonna ask for it.”
>   - Paraphrases: "Why even resist...?", "I <3 Status Quo".

### Pathology
Prettier's "Why Prettier" article is chalk full of pathos speech. It is almost entirely "ride the hype train" before it even gets the the "ride the hype train" section. It is there just to convince you that "everyone's doing it!" and "now nobody 'nits' on my code [teardrop]" so... you know!... just get conform! Conform! Damn you!!! It is rather lackluster in its logical and ethical content.

## Synopsis
Prettier is horrible in most cases. It can be a great idea if your codebase has been abused by many hands on many teams for many months. If that's the case, just run it over the entire codebase once and be done with it unless that happens again. The only time you should impose Prettier on your team is if the above keeps happening at a faster and faster rate. Generally, it is most popular because Juniors have never learned any other style of writing code and Prettier's format is all they know. But they'll never grow if they never have to learn (shocker!). I can see teachers using this to save their soul and sanity, but that is at the expense of their students. I don't see Prettier as the worst thing in the world, it's just very suboptimal as a coding standard for readability. It honestly just needs to be much much [much] (much much much) less opinionated before I could see myself using it on my own projects. The only people who use Prettier are few who use it right, some who just want to "ride the hype train", and mostly people who just _cannot_ survive without it. The worst thing about Prettier (or anything) is when people develop a dogmatism about it. The major problem with Prettier is that those who want to use it aggressively seek to impose it upon everybody else on their immediate team, teams on other projects that they moonlight with occasionally, everywhere they go for another job, and the field & industry at large. These are oftentimes the most closed-minded people in the field -- the most novice, most insecure, most whiney, and most unwilling to learn other styles of coding. It does the most disservice the younger, less experienced developers because -- say, the next shop doesn't unanimously use it or a different formatting tool comes along, or a solar mass ejection knocks out GitHub -- those Juniors (or "Seniors" at that point) are without a paddle. It seems that there virtually never is any liberalness, or libertarianness, when it comes to using Prettier. Nobody says "I like it so I'll use it but you don't have to". Instead, it is always an all-or-nothing "I want everyone to use it everywhere, otherwise it just doesn't work". That tells me there is a problem.

### Solution
Stop trying to control others. Be liberal/libertarian about it. Live & let live. Don't impose a tool on your peers just because you aren't willing to grow. Use Prettier, personally, if it helps -- but learn to read other coding styles. Run Prettier over a project once in a while if it has truly become too unwieldy. Learn how to write clean code in your own style. Don't be afraid to share your "nits" with others in a Code Review in a take-it-or-leave-it manner and just move on. Consider other people's "nits" and don't be afraid to kindly disagree and just move on. Don't let one or two squeeky wheels on a team impose an arbitrary tool on everyone just because they can't survive without it -- ask them to grow.

In a team of about 8 developers that I once ran, we broached the subject. There was one extremely whiney dev who frequently griped about us not using Prettier. He would say "I just don't understand why we all can't be using Prettier!". My response was "because, [name], we all agreed that we would talk about it as a team and if not everybody was sold on it then we would not be using it across the board. _You_ get to use it all you want, if it helps _you_, but we are just not going to impose it upon everybody on the team". He replied "I get that. I just don't understand _why_". My response was "because, [name], you are basically the only one who wants it and we don't even know if you will be here next week". That curbed the whining pretty quickly (about _that_ topic... for a while). This dev's main issue was that they were willing to die on _every_ hill. They called themselves a "Senior Frontend Developer" while being _terrified_ of CSS. Everything they complained about _was_ a hill worthy of dieing on, because, they were so unadaptive for not having worked on building certain skills that they _were_ dead if they could not get their _exact_ way on a lot of things. Again, they could not survive without Prettier and they intended to force everybody else to conform to a particular standard of coding style that _they_ approved of.

That is essentially the takeaway: an _opt-in_ policy. Anyone who wants to use it should be able to. But they **don't** get to impose it on other people. Run it against a codebase, at large, once in a while if it helps and then let everyone use it if they personally want to. If everyone is using it [willingly], sure, hook it up to commits -- put it in your GitHub Actions. In the absense of that -- JUST. CHILL. You don't get to impose things on other people just because you are unwilling to grow.

In all honesty, I would welcome an 'Interactive Prettier' Commit Hook that allowed me to accept format _suggestions_ while allowing me to say "No, leave this code the way I have it". Instead of focusing on controlling other peoples' styles of coding, maybe we should focus more about writing "Defensive Code" that avoids corruption over time.
