
The Onslaught of Coding Bootcamps
================
What is a "Bootcamp"? That word comes from the military lexicon.

> _noun_: bootcamp
> - a military training camp for new recruits, with strict discipline.
> - a prison for youthful offenders, run on military lines.
> - a short, intensive, and rigorous course of training.

New recruits. Youthful offenders. Short. Sounds right.

There is no denying the benefit that coding bootcamps have provided to countless individuals over the years. Some breaking into their first career for the first time. Others transitioning from another career. Not to mention: businesses have benefited greatly by having more labor and oftentimes at lower cost. They get to invest in upcoming talent that might stick around for years. But there are also downsides to all those parties involved.

## Bootcamp Evolution
I believe that back in the day a bootcamp only cost a few thousand bucks. I mean it. I believe they began between $2,000 - $4,000 for a 3-month course or longer. As more people found them attractive the cost rose to maybe $8,000 - $10,000 I believe. At that point, all the main Universities noticed they were hemorrhaging losses to bootcamps. I would see offers: "Bootcamp yourself for $40,000 and get your first job in 6 months". Seriously. So they just took their product, cut it in 8ths, and charged you the same price for it. I believe those offers failed miserably and the markets seem to have finally settled at around $16,000 for a Bootcamp. What they don't seem to tell _anyone_ is that you will still need about 2-3 more years of obsessive study & hands-on practice before you'll really get a job. What's more, I see people transitioning their careers from near-six-figure salaries and applying for jobs at around $60,000/year. Even after 3 additional years of studdy & practice, you may likely not even get a job paying over $35,000/year.

## The Onslaught
Every year there seems to be more and more companies that believe throwing more bodies at the problem is always a good thing. This naive thirst is quenched by the loads of rather cheap labor throw at them by the bootcamps. So what happens is: a good-to-well functioning dev team, beside their usual struggles, gets charged with the task of also onboarding 5 more Junior developers. The problem is: they were _not_ invested in by an institution already and _not_ self-taught where they would have to prove the drive to explore the knowledge landscape for themselves. They were hand-fed but not by an institution with any real backing or reputation. They were simply dropped into a 3-month course and dropped into a highly saturated, highly competitive field with nothing more than a certificate that says they got through some slides and cleared a particularly low bar, by institutional standards.

No worries, that is why we test everyone at interview time in this field. Well, a lot of the best & brightest get through because they deserve it. But standards in the bootcamps and companies alike have slipped. Not the worst thing. But, now, you have an unsustainable ratio of bootcampers to seasoned professionals. Still fine. But the bootcampers received promises. They now outnumber the seasoned pros and they tend to get their way by law of large numbers. Many times they are young, so you get a lot of ego & entitlement. Not everyone. But generally. But it is especially worse when the person just got scammed out of the downpayment for a house by an industry who's only concern was not to prepare you for the field but just get you in and out as fast as they can.

They are not turning out people who are even close to qualified for a salaried job. They don't even tell them there a _ton_ they don't know. I believe that is their selling point. But shouldn't an academy's main purpose be to expose pupils as much as possible to an awareness of the amount they are _not_ going to be educated on? It seems this is why the industry has become chalk-full of low-skill developers who believe they know everything about software just because they know how to use a framework to get certain things done. That is why we see devs gravitate so much toward certain tools like React, Prettier, and awful standards & practices. React is an excellent framework... ahem... library... but it is not much better, if at all, than a handful of other frameworks out there that all look about the same when you start to scale. No, it's popular because it is what the bootcamps have decided is best to convince people they can learn it and do something of value with it -- which they can't. When I get passed on by a single gatekeeper junior/mid-level developer who I have 7-years experience over for "over-answering some of the questions", that tells me the industry is about the break. By the way, what "over anwering" means in an interview is: "They got all the questions correct. In fact, they began speaking for enough above my experience that I really would have no way of know if anything they expanded on was correct or not. Actually, it kind of hurt my feelings that they absolutely toasted the questions I came up with. They have more experience than I do and that makes me feel less secure". It basically means either you were highly overqualified or the questions were highly underqualified. Just brush it off.

## Synopsis
The field is suffering and I believe the industry will be suffering more and more. A lot of people have taken bootcamps because they assumed the grass was greener because the field has be falsely glorified. I wouldn't quite call it lipstick on a pig but we software developers are essentially just glorified Assembly Line Workers. We are bit pushers, that's all. The floor manager spies on us just as much as the 1930's -- even more because IT is constantly sliding more & more telelemetry, key-logging, and app-usage policies underneath the doorjam of our machines every week. So a huge swath of the population is getting hoodwinked by an industry that, as of late, seems to be driven by the same institutions that we are now catching on has been involved in predatory lending schemes. It does not seem fair to me to charge someone $16,000 to do what essentially a subscription to PluralSight would do much more effectively. I would advise people looking to get into software to stop and truly ask yourself: are you getting what you paid for?

If I were to ask anything of the bootcamp industry, it might be this: teach your pupils that the framework is only as useful as much as you know the language. As much as you know the language is only as useful as much as you know higher-level topics like OOP, FP, SOLID Principles, Software Design Patterns, and Software Coupling. Stop turning out people who only know one framework and half a language. Give them a small project with each React, Angular, Vue and have them pick which one to use for the final. **Stop turning out "Frontend Developers" who either hate, are _terrified of_, or indifferently _do not know a single lick of CSS_**. Teach them to actually be modest and open-minded instead of dogmatic about technologies and skills & experience. It makes sense that _if you touch Angular you're one of **them**_ because, if you get hired and the company pilots a Vue project and it's a success -- the company might move in another direction and then the one and only skill the bootcamper halfway knows is less relevant. It is a predatory racket and I will count my blessings that I never went through a Coding Bootcamp.
