
The Micro Frontend Pattern &copy;
================
- Why you don't need an MFE Framework
- Why all you need is a CI/CD system.

## The Micro Frontend Pattern &copy;

### Motivation
When evaluating microfrontend frameworks that are cumbersome, instead, reach for a simple CI system that allows you to publish modules at CORS protected locations. This allows you to publish Web Components using a Custom Element framework of your choice (Lit, Polymer, native, etc).

### Participants
#### View
A fragment of HTML in an ordinary parent frame which is responsible for declaring an iframe alongside a Web Component defined in the child frame.
#### RCD
A Remote Component Definition. The RCD is defined in a remote script and loaded in the View, after which, the RCD calls `remove()` on its `frameElement` to remove the original `<iframe>` from the View.

## Example

### View
```html
<div class="my view">
    <iframe src="https://cors.enabled.app/public/v0.0.1/raw.element.html"></iframe>
    <my-remote-component></my-remote-component>
</div>
```

### RCD
```html
<body>
    <template id="template">
        <h1>Remote Component Definition</h1>
    </template>
    <style id="style">
        :host {
            color: firebrick;
        }
    </style>
    <script>
        const { parent, frameElement } = window;
        const { customElements, HTMLElement } = parent;  // ensure is from parent frame
        const { log } = console;
        const TAGNAME = 'my-remote-component';
        const defined = !!customElements.get(TAGNAME);
        
        if (!defined) customElements.define(TAGNAME, class RemoteComponent extends HTMLElement {
            
            constructor() {
                super();
                this.attachShadow({ mode: 'open' });
                this.#setup();
            }
            
            #setup() {
                const template = document.querySelector('#template');
                const style = document.querySelector('#style');
                
                this.shadowRoot.appendChild(style);
                this.shadowRoot.appendChild(template.content);
                frameElement.remove();
            }
            
            connectedCallback() {
                log(`@REMOTE COMPONENT DEFINITION -> connected`);
            }
            
        });
    </script>
</body>
```

### Output
```html
<div class="my view">
    <my-remote-component>
        #shadow-root (open)
            <style id="style">
                :host {
                    color: firebrick;
                }
            </style>
            <h1>Remote Component Definition</h1>
    </my-remote-component>
</div>
```


## Enhancements

### Interpolation
If not using a Web Components framework such as Lit, one may elect to use basic interpolation on the `<template>` and `<style>` elements' `innerHTML` before attaching them to the Custom Element's `shadowRoot`. This would allow you to leverage dynamic styling in your component, based on [say] attributes, where perhaps (if ever) native CSS Attribute Selectors were not an option.

### Versioning
With a basic CI/CD system, RCDs can be deployed to specific locations that reflect a version of the component, allowing for graceful deprecation and iterative enhancements. In the example above, the RCD is published behind version `v0.0.1`, which can be a simple S3 Bucket or a simple folder in your GitHub Pages website.


## Importance
The importance of this pattern cannot be overstated. This pattern, beside saving you from the headache of cumbersome MFE frameworks like RSBuild/RSPack + ModduleFederation, **turns The Web into a Plugin Architecture**. That is, anyone anywhere can publish and consume native Web Components that integrate with anyone else's website or webapp anywhere on The Web. It can be used for Custom Elements or simple partials. Authors can develop their own protocols & patterns, such as providing a sibling frame that loads a README for usage. However, _this pattern does come with certain security concerns that you and your team need to discuss if using RCDs from untrusted origins_.

## Variants & Patterns
- Replacing the `frameElement` with a Web Component `Node` (instead of the View declaring it).
- Replacing the `frameElement` with a `Node` from the `<template>`'s `content` or another element (instead of the View declaring it) for loading simple partials.
- Calling a parent-frame script to define or load the element through a framework.
- Simply providing a `<template>` and `<style>`s.
- Providing a `<meta>` element whose `name` is a `tagName` for the parent frame to define (see Frameless&trade;).
- Providing a sibling README frame for documentation & usage.
- Simply replacing the `frameElement` with a `<style>` that loads an entire CSS framework.
- Simply replacing the `frameElement` with a `<style>` that loads different parts of a CSS framework.
- Many others.

## Other Considerations
This pattern, generally, only works with native Web Components. Angular, on the one hand, does provide the ability to export components as native Web Components, which would allow teams to write in one syntax and still take advantage of this pattern. However, frameworks like React do not yet provide this capability at the time of this writing, in which case your team may but stuck with a cumbersome framework.

## Synopsis
This pattern, while the RCD itself must be a Web Component, can be used in any app using any other framework because native is compatible with anything. It is a lightweight approach to achieving microfrontend architecture without cumbersome frameworks; all you need is a CI system. From there, the sky is the limit of what you can do as the Web Component author and the consumer need only know how the author expects or enforces its consumption. It can be used for Web Components, partials, atomic buttons and other components, or Feature-Complete Microfrontend views at large. Additional patterns & conventions will develop on top of this baseline pattern -- packaging & documentation conventions, Smart vs Dumb components & partials, and likely many others. Again, most frameworks & libraries are there simply to conceal a pattern and decieve the consumer into believing there is all sorts of "magic" happening behind the scenes that is usually a very small set of simple patterns.
