
UI Patterns
================
Let's say you're tasked with writing a file-upload button. You could use the DnD API (Drag/Drop). But that may be overkill if all we need to drop are files. Well, we can stick an `input[type="file"]` in the page, but that might look kind of ugly.

Let's say you have a page that collects data -- say, an options list. We could just stick some `input[type="checkbox"]`s in the page, but that might look kind of ugly. You might be thinking: "I'll just make some buttons and manually track their clicks and make them behavor like checkboxes". That sounds aweful.

Let's say the options list above needs to have radio-button behavior. Again ... might look kind of ugly ... sounds aweful.

What if instead we actually piggybacked on any `input[type="{X}"]` element to make our job easier and then just write a UI that reflects its state?

```html
<div class="typedbutton wrapper">
  <input class="typedbutton control" type="checkbox" />
  <button class="typedbutton display" type="button">Well, </button>
</div>
```

```scss
.typedbutton.wrapper {
  position: relative;
  border: solid 1px tomato;
  display: inline-block;
  max-width: 160px;
  max-height: 64px;
  overflow: hidden;
  
  .typedbutton.control {
    position: absolute;
    top: 0;
    left: 0;
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
    margin: 0;
    opacity: 0.3;
  }
  
  .typedbutton.display {  // defaults
    background-color: gray;
    &::after {
      content: "...";
    }
  }
  
  .typedbutton.control:checked ~ .typedbutton.display {
    background-color: green;
    &::after {
      content: "yes!";
    }
  }
  
  .typedbutton.control:not(:checked) ~ .typedbutton.display {
    background-color: red;
    &::after {
      content: "no.";
    }
  }
}
```

## Explaination
Essentially all we are doing is taking an input and stretching it across (and on top of) some other display element that is used to reflect the input's state. This UI pattern is very useful for several reasons...

- Speed of Development: especially if reusable. (see also "less error prone")
- Web Accessibility: free keyboard navigation + form-data collection
- Power Users: free keyboard navigation + form-data collection
- Less error prone: no maintenance around cludgy variables and event-listeners as we can piggyback on native browser functionality

Essentially, we use a container that wraps (at least) 2 elements: a display element and a control element. The display element sits underneath the control to provide the aesthetics of the UX we are trying to achieve. The control element sits on top of the display element (with opacity set to 0) in order to elegantly absorb the interactions of the user. It even has better "Graceful Degradation" when necessary. This pattern can be leveraged alongside input[type="checkbox"] for toggles (as seen here) and multi-select type functionality, input[type="radio"] for radio-group behavior, input[type="file"] for file-upload behavior, and even other types of input types depending on your needs (such as typeaheads and multivariant-toggle / partial-state buttons).
