
CSS Modules
================
Oftentimes the only thing of benefit we get from leveraging "_CSS Modules_" is the degree of anchoring Coupling we get between the CSS, HTML, and JavaScript for a particular problem domain. Moreover, there are plenty of shops using CSS Modules who also adopt a Frontend Design System methodology such as BEM (Block, Element, Modifier), SMACSS (Scalable Modular Architecture CSS), or OOCSS (Object Oriented CSS). Here we provide a different approach altogether ... well, actually... it is fairly similar to all of the above while saving you from having to make various decisions around all of it.

## Parent-Child Class-Chaining (P3C?)

##### HTML
```html
<app class="todo app view">
    <header class="view header">
        <logo class="header logo"></logo>
        <h1 class="header title">Some Title</h1>
        <subheader class="header toolbar">
            <button class="toolbar button menu">
                <icon class="menu icon"></icon>
            </button>
            ...
        </subheader>
    </header>
    <main class="view body">
        ...
    </main>
    <footer class="view footer">
        ...
    </footer>
</app>
```

##### CSS
```SCSS
.todo.app.view {
    [...styles];
    
    .view.header {
        .header.logo { ... }
        .header.title { ... }
        .header.toolbar {
            [...styles];
            
            .toolbar.button { ... }
            .toolbar.button.menu {
                [...styles];
                
                .menu.icon { ... }
                
            }
            
        }
    }
    
    .view.body { ... }
    .view.footer { ... }
    
}
```

## Synopsis
Notice that all we do is name our elements well enough with normal English-like descriptions as their `className`s. We then just _chain_ the begginning of a child's className with the end of it's parent. While this style is rather similar to BEM, it is at least less damaging to the soul to look at. One difference is that _not every class in the className actually has to have it's own styling_ (though it can) but [maybe] is only there to provide just enough entropy for targeting the element while not going overboard on _Specificity_. The key to it is always using 2 or more words in the className. This pattern makes it virtually impossible to run into naming collisions in our CSS while also providing a standard approach to the way we structure the classNames in our markup and our CSS code. Moreover, it gives us a lot of flexibity to wrap and unwrap our HTML elements with other elements that might be there only for one-off layout differences or other styling -- all without getting us into _Specificity Hell_. That sounds like a pretty big win to me.
