
Mock Driven Development
================
Depending on the shop, team composition, project requirements, external team influences and other forces there are times when it is necessary to trek ahead when you don't have everything you _want_ to begin a task or project and carry forward toward completion. But you'd be surprised with how little you actually _need_ to do most of the work. That's where MDD comes in.

For a single task it may be as little as fleshing out a model object right there in a component's file...
##### `**/some.component.ts`
```tsx
import React, {} from 'react';

const MOCK_DATA: IComponentData = {
    id: -1,
    title: 'Mock Title',
    description: 'Mock data description'
};
const DEFAULT_PROPS = {
    data: {  },
};

function Component(props: { data: IComponentData }) {
    const { data } = { ...DEFAULT_PROPS, ...props, ...MOCK_DATA };
    const { id, title, description } = data;
    
    return (<>...</>);
}
```

But when you have to begin a sizeable project in greenfield and try to meet the deadline as much as possible so that it is ready to go as soon as, say, that external team finally provides you with an API-Key -- that's when a more robust mocking system comes in handy.


## What you need...
- environment configs
- `package.json` scripts
- `import`ed HTTP module
- static HTTP server
- scaffolding pattern for housing mocks


### Environment Configs
This can be virtually anything you want but for the sake of this article we will assume to use `.env`-style files alongside a Model class. The `.env` files should share the following convention, although, you only need one during MDD. The following should look abstractly like this: `{type}.env`. Concretely, like this...

- `mck.env`: mock
- `dev.env`: dev
- `stg.env`: staging
- `.env`: production

##### `~/mck.env`
```.env
API_URL=http://localhost:3001
API_KEY=mock
API_SECRET=mock
```

We also assume use of the "dotenv" NPM module to help us select and parse whichever the correct .env file is...

##### `@env/environment.ts`
```typescript
require('dotenv').config({ path: require('./path') });

export default new (class Environment {
    TYPE: string = '';
    API_URL: string = '';
    API_KEY: string = '';
    API_SECRET: string = '';
    
    constructor(options: Environment = <Environment>{}) {
        const { TYPE='prd', API_URL, API_KEY, API_SECRET } = { ...this, ...options };
        
        this.TYPE = TYPE;
        this.API_URL = API_URL;
        this.API_KEY = API_KEY;
        this.API_SECRET = API_SECRET;
        
        return this.validate();
    }
    
    validate() {
        const { TYPE, API_URL, API_KEY, API_SECRET } = this;
        
        if (TYPE) throw new Error(`ENV missing TYPE. Got "${TYPE}"`);
        if (API_URL) throw new Error(`ENV missing TYPE. Got "${API_URL}"`);
        if (API_KEY) throw new Error(`ENV missing TYPE. Got "${API_KEY}"`);
        if (API_SECRET) throw new Error(`ENV missing TYPE. Got "${API_SECRET}"`);
        
        return this;
    }
    
})({ ...process.env });
```

##### `@env/path.ts`
```typescript
module.exports = {
    'mck': 'mck.env',
    'dev': 'dev.env',
    'stg': 'stg.env',
    'prd': '.env',
    'undefined': '.env',  // assume DevOps won't provide TYPE
    '': '.env',  // assume DevOps won't provide TYPE
}[ process.env.TYPE ];
```

##### `@env/index.ts`
```typescript
export { default as env } from './environment';
```

This is all stuff you should want in any app for running it under any environment type anyway, not _just_ for MDD.


### `package.json` scripts
Next, you'll want some scripts that allow you to lift the app with environment-types as: `mck`, `dev`, `stg`, and `prd` or `""` or `undefined` for production.
```json
{
    "name": "mdd",
    "scripts": {
        "mck:start":     "framework start --type=mck",
        "premck:start":  "http lift ./mocks/http/api",
        "dev:start":     "framework start --type=dev",
        "stg:start":     "framework start --type=stg",
        "prd:start":     "framework start --type=prd",
        "start": "npm run mck:start",
        "test": "runner --target='./**/*.spec.ts'",
        "build": "npm run prd:build",
        "deploy": "cli ./dist --dest='https://username:password@www.example.com'"
    },
    ...
}
```
Notice that we added a `pre{env}:start` script that will run before `mck:start` runs. This is actually an NPM convention and you can also run `post{script}` scripts as well. We chose `pre` because we want to lift an HTTP server pointed at the directory we store our mocks in _before_ the app runs just in case the app needs to make an HTTP call right out of the gates.


### `import`ed HTTP Module (XHR/Fetch)
Again, this doesn't necessarily have to do with MDD specifically and is something you should always do for any app in any environment: always `import` your HTTP module.

##### `./src/core/http/fetch.ts`
```typescript
import { env } from '@env';

const { TYPE } = env;
const { fetch: f } = this;
const fetch = { 'mck': mock, 'dev': f, 'stg': f, 'prd': f }[ TYPE ];

async function mock(url: string, init: FetchInit): Promise<Response> {
    return f(url, { ...init, method: 'GET' });  // <-- make sure that is a GET for everything
}

export { fetch };
```
This basically just swaps out the native fetch function for the `mock` version that always makes the request a `GET` and can perform any other interjection before the request or after the response if needed.


### Static HTTP Server
As we show in the "`package.json` scripts" section, we use a `pre{script}` NPM script alongside a static HTTP server [of our preference] in order to serve a static directory under the root: `~/mocks/http/api`. It may take some playing around with the make sure you have the paths exactly how you want them, especially when you have multiple APIs you plan to hit. That is basically it though.


### Scaffolding Pattern for Housing Mocks
As seen above, we house our mocks under `~/mocks/http/api`. There is also a pattern that you should employ alongside everything else. You basically want to mimic the same structure as the API(s) you plan to interact with. For instance, if your backend provides a "projects" endpoint, you may have a mock file housed at `~/mocks/http/api/projects`. This would be a JSON file (assuming you're consuming `Content-Type` of `application/json`) but named _without the `.json` file-extension_ as the extension would collide with URL pathnames. When it comes to requesting resources both at `/projects` _and_ `./projects/{id}` you may want to start fleshing out the `mock` function from your "`import`ed HTTM Module"...

##### `./src/core/http/fetch.ts`
```typescript
import { env } from '@env';

const { TYPE } = env;
const { fetch: f } = this;
const fetch = { 'mck': mock, 'dev': f, 'stg': f, 'prd': f }[ TYPE ];

async function mock(url: string, init: FetchInit): Promise<Response> {
    const { pathname } = new URL(url);
    const [ segment, id ] = pathname.split('/');
    
    if (!id) return f(`${url}/index`, { ...init, method: 'GET' });  // <-- DIRECT ALL PARENT CALLS TO AN "index" FILE
    return f(url, { ...init, method: 'GET' });  // <-- make sure that is a GET for everything
}

export { fetch };
```
This can, at times, become a little bit difficult to get it just right but, based upon your needs, you may not even need it. If you do, it is still something you can work on while you wait for that API Key from the other team or company.


## Summary
This is about all you need to create a powerful Mock Driven Development environment. Different parts may look slightly different defpending on your needs but from here you can more or less start adding mocks that support the development of your app. Variations and additions may or may not occur when you need to implement things such as Webhooks or otherwise, but this should give you a huge leg up. Here's about what the project would look like from a scaffolding perspective...

```shell
my-greenfield-project
    |-env
        |-environment.ts
        |-path.ts
        |-index.ts
    |-src
        |-app
        |-core
            |-http
                |-fetch.ts
    |-mocks
        |-http
            |-api               # statically served directory
                |-users         # directory
                    |-998       # JSON file without file-extension
                |-projects      # JSON file without file-extension
                |-[...more]
    |-mck.env
    |-dev.env
    |-stg.env
    |-.env
    |-package.json
    |-.gitignore                # don't forget to ignore `.env`s and ./mocks
```


## Synopsis
MDD can be an extremely powerful approach to developing websites and applications. The critical part is that you have just enough knowledge _today_ and can Triage development as more information arrives. You may not yet even know what the URL Pathname structure will look like -- but you can encapsulate the exact pathnames within an "`endpoints`" file to change later on (remember _"Encapsulate what varies" - GoF_). You may not even know what exactly the response data-structures at each or all of the endpoints will look like but maybe your app can function well _enough_ for 90% of the development process. The entire principle of MDD is getting off the ground and developing as much of the app as possible _today_ as more information may arrive _tomorrow_ and by the end of the month when, say, that API Key finally arrives -- all you have to do is tweak that _one last thing_, perhaps by just running `npm run dev:start` instead of `npm run mck:start`. The hope is that the development process either has nearly everything up front or the development process is _asymptotic_ between the amount of information you have _today_ and when that deadline or API Key finally arrives.

This approach has helped my and teams I've worked on immensely and at critical times too. It's origination came from a time when I was flying out to a conference and realized I wasn't going to be able to cut it working on the app with a slacky web connection on an aireplane. When I got back, people were a little surprised with what I was able to get done. From there on out we referred to it as "_Airplane Mode_" and over the years I have made alterations to it in accordance with different development environments. I hope this helps you, you team, you project, your company as much as it has helped me and allows you to better Triage efforts or help get you through that tight gap or even just be there when your web connection is down. And remember, _most of the requirements to make this work at things that you should want in your application in any environment anyway_ so if you're already using good practices seen throughout this article then you're already nearly there for MDD.
