
Playgrounds
================
Some people may refer to them as a "styleguide", which it isn't really. Other people may call them a "component catalog", a "Design System", a "Sandbox" or whatnot. Those words are poor nomenclature for a Playground, in my opinion. A "component catalog" might come close but those might even be two different things or a component catalog might just be a certain type of Playground. A "Sandbox" almost hits the nail on the head but a _Sandbox_ is actually already reserved for another pattern & approach. A Playground is basically this: _an area of the project codebase that can be used to run the app with either mock data or real data for the sake of demo, debugging & troubleshooting, progressive development, some sort of benchmarking, or even weak testing_. In the Frontend, that might end up looking a lot like Storybook which is much more of what some would call a component catalog and it can aid a Designer's Design System as well. On the Backend, it might look like a CLI tool used to run scripts against the local server or a remote one. Essentially, it is just a way to explore your code in a running state. Usually it is only run in dev environments but it can also useful in QA/staging environments as well.

## Building a Playground
For years before any frameworks, libraries or framework plugins came out for building playgrounds I and many others wree already creating them within the apps we worked on. The ones I built typically ran alongside a _Mock Driven Decelopment_ approach, serve as developer and designer documentation, and were oftentimes used for designer & PO signoff and demos. This article explains a few tips for why it's usually a good idea and what benefits you might expect from using one.

### Writing Your Own

#### Frontend
##### Conditional Route Injection
```typescript
import { env } from '@env';
...
import { Playground } from '@dev/components/playground';

const { TYPE } = env;
const routes: Route[] = [
    {
        path: '/',
        component: App,
        name: 'app',
        children: [
            { ... }
        ]
    },
    { path: '**', component: Four04, name: 'error:404' },
];

if ({ 'mck': true, 'dev': true }[ TYPE ]) routes.push({ path: '/playground', component: Playground, name: 'playground' });

export const router = Route.init(routes);
```

##### Registry
You likely also want somewhere you can automate where developers register components in order to see them in the playground. This, or course, may likely just be children of the "`playground`" route itself -- that is an excellent option. Another way is to setup a registry where the `Playground` component (other than providing a menu to access components for display) can look at a mapping in order to know which mock data to provide as the components input alongside any other features you might want in the playground.
```typescript
const registry = [
    { id: 0, title: 'Calendar Component', description: '...', component: Calendar, data: MOCK_CALENDAR_DATA, readme: CALENDAR_README },
    ...
];
```
That is about all you really need to bootstrap a frontend playground in most modern apps. However, some things you may want to consider are whether or not using the routing system is best for the component registry alongside a hyperlink menu or whether or not a standalone registry object alongside, say, a `select` box is better. You may even consider using a `select[multiple]`. Either way, it is certainly nice to be able to attach README documents to a component and it is rather necessary to automatically provide mock data as the component's inputs.

#### Backend
Backend playgrounds tend to have more variance depending on what your backend's purpose is -- REST, Puppeteer scripts, etc. -- and how you wrote it. Either way, I'd recommend you create a cheap & easy CLI tool for running it in different modes. That can be as easy as a few `package.json` scripts and a runner that looks at the `argv` values of the script running.

##### `package.json`
```json
{
    "name": "playground",
    "scripts": {
        "mck:pg:gen": "node ./playground mck generate",
        "mck:pg:pay": "node ./playground mck pay",
        "mck:pg:e2e": "node ./playground mck e2e",
        "dev:pg:gen": "node ./playground dev generate",
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

##### `./playground`
```typescript
import { generate } from '@app/actions/quotes/generate';
import { pay } from '@app/actions/payments/pay';

const { log } = console;
const { argv } = process;
const [ script, path, env, action ] = argv;

(async function setup() {  // optional
    rest.get('/webhook', (req, res) => log(`@webhook`, req.body));
})();

(async function run() {
    const execute = {
        'generate': () => generate(MOCK_APPLICANT),
        'pay': () => pay(MOCK_CREDIT_CARD),
        'e2e': () => e2e(MOCK_APPLICANT, MOCK_CREDIT_CARD),
    }[];
})();

async function e2e(data, card) {
    const quote = await generate(data);
    const result = await pay(card);
    return result;
}
```
This might be all you need to get started or maybe even all you need to perform the kind of debugging you would like in your development process. Either way, it is dead simple and provides a ton of benefits. The nice thing about this is, when the logging system catches something unanticipated, you can copy the payload from the logs and paste it into a mock to go straight to the issue.

## Synopsis
Playgrounds, whether frontend or backend, can provide a ton of value to you and your team. It should _not_ replace the necessity for writing tests but it _can_ be a great complement to your testing alongside the rest of your development process -- especially when tests are lacking due to time constraints. It can help you keep an eye on the state that the code should operate in and be extremely useful for getting straight to the issue when something goes wrong simply by providing the original payload from the error logs.
