
A Word On Testing
================
You may often be asked in an interview "what is the right amount of Test Coverage?" Your candidacy may immediately be dropped if you answer anything but "100%". You may suggest something of an 80/20 rule. Which is "wrong". In the absense of the "right" answer (being 100%), there is another option. The actual _right_ answer is _any_. The better answer is actually _more than yesterday_. I am not saying not to give it 110% effort but the "100%" answer sounds like _perfectionism_; and perfectionism is extremism, Obsessive Compulsive Disorder, and|or dogmatism. Tersely, no good. You've likely heard rhetoric stating that "perfection is not achieved when there is nothing more you can add. It is achieved when there is nothing left to remove". Well, when you have nothing there is nothing left to remove. So, in other words, _nothing_ is perfect.

Who am I as an outsider (or even insider) to tell someone what their exact overall strategy should be in place for their development process. The CTO, I suppose. In the absense of that, we can only assume a team or shop is going to employ an array of quality assurance measurements across the board in order to Triage what _exactly_ works best for their team & environment. They may use an 80/20 rule for Unit Tests alongside E2E Tests for "the more important things" and leveraging Playgrounds for quicker debugging. There _is_ something to be said about the tradeoff between _nothing ever going wrong (or at least knowing about it)_ and _being able to debug & pinpoint what goes wrong **very** quickly_. That's where Playgrounds thrive.

## Solution
**Code _Confidence_**. Just start. Implement _any_. Have more _today_ than you did _yesterday_. Even if you wrote 3 more modules an only 1 test, it's better than yesterday. Complement your various kinds of testing with playgrounds. All you _really_ want is a _higher level of confidence in you code and the system at large_. A major win for Code Confidence is _clean code_. A major win for clean code is _simple code_. A major win for simple code is a well thought out _application architecture_. And a major win for application architecture is a _simple architecture_. In fact, it can be argued that _breaking a bad design is a good implementation_. In other words: if you have a bad architectural design then _what are you even testing in the first place_. I have seen plenty of projects under failing pressures that had virtually 100% Test Coverage, and still failed because nobody could work with the code. In fact, the _need_ to achieve higher test coverage was critical because of the lack of _reliability_ and the unreliability was likely due to a poorly designed or nondesigned application architecture. When developers have less clarity about the code they have less confidence about the implementation. This is not so say don't worry about testing. But testing should not be a nail-biting activity used as a tripwire because you don't trust your code. Testing should envelop the "_trust but verify_" idiom. If you don't even trust your code there is hardly anything to verify.

Don't worry about writing the tests conventionally perfect -- just import the module, feed it inputs, looks at the out puts, run it somehow. In fact, how to you think testing frameworks (or any framework for that matter) come to the foreground? Somebody was building their own system for it and it worked out so well for them that they decided to release it to the public. So don't be afraid to even write your own CLI Test Runner -- it's _not_ Rocket Surgery. I've also seen intimidation and waste of time because the sister testing framework packaged with the main framework is so cumbersome and almost a new language that wants you to test everything at the deepest levels (or else you'll be frowned upon). Again, just use it for whatever worth it provides and get on the the next one. At some point with these testing frameworks it is actually asking you to test the main framework itself (looking at you, Angular). If my inputs and method invocations are indeed changing the data on the model, can't I trust that my `className` will change because the framework itself has be tested and should work?

Where having 100% Test Coverage really matters is during migration efforts where you really want those tripwires because the architectural foundation is moving under your feet. Again though, if you have a well designed application architecture you may likely keep using that design instead of migrating away from it. It's really when you're migrating from a poor/nonarchitecture to a good one that you find yourself needing it. And, if you have a solid app architecture then it would be easy to employ the **BBA Refactor Pattern** (_Branch By Abstraction_) which is excellent for migrations. An excellent way to do all this is to leverage Sandbox Driven Development and a Sandbox Driven Architecture right off the bat because it scales so well with the complexity of an app as development continues. Moreover, there are many benefits directly reflected in Testing when it comes to leveraging a Sandbox, not limited to a massive decrease in the need to mock 20 modules in every Unit Test.

## Synopsis
"Test Coverage should be 100%" is _not_ the right answer. The right answer is actually _more than yesterday_. A better answer is: _enough to have **Code Confidence**_. To have Code Confidence you will likely employ a _mixed strategy_ that includes a number of things not limited to Playgrounds and a sound Application Architecture. I have known developers who could write virtually flawless, bugless code. The task becomes more challenging, even for those developers, when working under a crappy Application Architecture Definition (or Enterprise Architecture, for that matter). Thing is, you are _always_ going to have an application architecture whether you design one or not. It still exists, it's just going to have all sorts of problems. Testing should go by the _trust but verify_ idiom but if you don't trust the code in the first place then there is basically nothing to verify.
