
How To Build A Frontend Application
================
Needless to say, we're going to be talking about an pattern here and not teaching you how to build, say, a ToDo's app. We're gonna give you a fishing pole, not a just a fish. Rather, it'll be a holistic approach you can (and should) apply to every frontend project. It is a Frontend Application Architecture that you can take, tweak, enhance, and use to drive simplicity & sanity into any application you either begin greenfield, have no defined architecture already, or even the most fussy apps where you need an escape hatch. In order to talk about this Application Architecture Definition, we need to break down some terms of architecture.

## What is Architecture?
Some say "the stuff you cannot change later on". That definition sounds a little hopeless. Some have their own specific definitions that may not fit everything very well. Either way, it should be something you can begin to employ at any phase of the project and it will help to whichever degree you leverage it while also scaling with the app across phases. Here we'll define it as software with the following properties...

- Infrastructure
- Suprastructure
- Scaffolding
- Archetype

As you can see, this actually explains _any_ application. However, the approach we'll convey in this article describes a particular approach to implementing these properties in ways that should be most useful right out of the gates, during the development phase, and throughout the maintenance phase.

### Infrastructure
The parts of the code you write to drive Coupling between the rest of the lower level system and individual modules. This may relate more to something like a DI (Dependency Injection) system, Application Mediation, Module Intercommunication, or State Management.

### Suprastructure
The Base Library, framework, plugins, and all things 3rd Party to your app that your application is beset upon.

### Scaffolding
The file/folder structure and conventions used relating to _External Coupling_ as it pertains to importing modules and the way subsystems are packaged/bundled.

### Archetype
Any sole pattern or patterns that are critical to understanding the common behavior(s) within the app. Examples include: EDA (Event-Driven Architecture), PubSub, Component Driven Architecture, MV* (Model View X) -- MVA (Adapter), MVC (Controller), MVP (Presenter), VM (View-Model) -- or other concrete patterns critical to the app's function.


## How to Build Your Frontend

### Use a _Conduit_
You need to have a conduit between all of your modules. This ends up making your app exhibit a "Hub & Spoke" model. If you already have something of a conduit from your suprastructure, _wrap it_. An example may be, rather than using a raw `dispatch` function (from React Context API), you simply export a wrapped version of it instead. This allows you to interject on communication between modules and peform any simple operations necessary beside many more advanced techniques (before actually hitting the Reducer). Ultimately, this ends up creating the means for Application Mediation and look something like an Application Sandbox.

#### `~/**/*.ts`
A quick & dirty example...

```typescript

export function useSandbox() {
    const [ state, dispatch ] = useReducer(reducer, INITIAL_STATE, setup);
    return wrap(state, dispatch);
}

function wrap(state, dispatch) {
    return function publish(action: TAction) {
        const { type } = action;
        const handle = {
            'USER:LOGIN': handleLogin,
            ...
        }[ type ];
        
        if (handle) handle.call(undefined, state, action);
        else dispatch(action);
        
        return [ state, publish ];
    };
}

```

#### `~/src/app/sandbox.ts`
This example proses using OOP for your App Mediator / Sandbox that that it is easier to extend from, say, a _Child Sandbox_ in a subsystem of the app that may have its own concerns for absorbing complexity out of other modules and into one specifically designated for handling such so that it can bubble up only the higher level messages to its _Parent Sandbox_ without channel collisions during chatter. We may also prefer OOP here as it is part of our core -- taking organizational tradeoffs for long-term maintenance over small wins in performance. This effectively would turn our Hub & Spoke model into a _composite hub & spoke model_ (see _The Composite Pattern_) in which each or any spoke can also be a hub (with its own spokes). In other words, Branch Nodes and Leaf Nodes. This pattern can scale indefinitely.

```typescript
class Sandbox {
    private medium: EventTarget = new EventTarget();
    
    constructor(private $: IServices) {}
    
    private dispatch(channel: TChannel, data?: any) {
        const event = new MessageEvent(channel, { data });
        this.medium.dispatchEvent(event);  // dispatch to subscribers (or to reducer instead if set up)
        return this;
    }
    
    publish(channel: TChannel, data?: any) {
        if (channel in this) this[channel](channel, data);
        else this.dispatch(channel, data);
        return this;
    }
    
    subscribe(channel: TChannel, handler: EventListenerOrListenerObject) {
        this.medium.addEventListener(channel, handler, true);
        return this;
    }
    
    unsubscribe(channel: TChannel, handler: EventListenerOrListenerObject) {
        this.medium.removeEventListener(channel, handler, true);
        return this;
    }
    
    async ['USER:LOGIN'](channel: TChannel, credentials: IUserCredential) {
        const user = await this.$.user.login(credentials);  // log user in
        this.dispatch({ type: 'USER:LOGIN', payload: user });  // dispatch to system
    }
    
}
```

#### Usage

##### `~/src/app/app.ts`
```typescript
dependencyInjection
    .register(IServices, {
        user: UserService,
        ...
    })
    .register(Sandbox, Sandbox)
    ;
```

##### `~/src/app/subsystem/**/*.ts`
```typescript
import { channels, Sandbox } from '@app/sandbox';

export class Component {
    
    constructor(private $: Sandbox) {
        $.subscribe(channels['SOMETHING:CHANGED'], this.handleChanged);
    }
    
    handleChange(e: Event) {
        this.$.publish(channels['SOMETHING:CHANGED'], changes);
    }
    
    handleChanged = (e: MessageEvent) => {
        const { data: changes } = e;
        this.changes = changes;
    };
    
};
```

This example demonstrates some of the power of this approach as we are able to create something of our own Event Loop. That is, when the user makes changes within the UI our `handleChange` method is invoked and publishes the event. When that happens, our Sandbox/Mediator catches the "`SOMETHING:CHANGED`" event, makes a call out to a server through some service, gets the response back, and forwards on our event. So the changes that actually get `dispatched` are the data coming back from the server -- not the UI data. This is expecially useful when you may have extra data or updates that make the data only 'up to date' when the server has already processed it, not just the UI. Other ways the app mediator may interject on a message are not limited to _squelching_ and event when it does not want the rest of the system to know about sensitive data (i.e. a `token`), _translate_ the message from one type to another, _transform_ the message so as to enhance the data on the same channel, or just a plain old _forward_ after logging the event.

### Composite Scaffolding
In order to keep things from getting unwieldy while conveying to other developers where things belong, we apply _The Composite Pattern_ to the scale of our application scaffolding.

```
  app
    |-sandbox.ts
    |-app.ts
    |-component.ts
    |-component.spec.ts
    |-service.ts
    |-model.ts
    |-children
        |-[module-name]
            |-component.ts
            |-component.spec.ts
            |-service.ts
            |-model.ts
            |-children
        |-[sibling-name]
            |-component.ts
            |-component.spec.ts
            |-service.ts
            |-model.ts
            |-children
        |-...
```

As you may notice, there is virtually no difference between the "`app`" module, the "`[module-name]`", "`[sibling-name]`" and any other for that matter. That is because we employ The Composite Pattern which essentially repeats the same structure across parent and child subsystems. It is expecially useful for frontend applications as the majority of time you are modeling components after the DOM, which actually implements The Composite Pattern for Element Nodes.

### What A Core Looks Like
Of course, not every core for every _domain_ may look the same, but here's roughly what it should look like -- at least for an app core...

```shell
|-[module-name]
.   |-[module-name].[ext]
.   |-children
.   |-core
.   .   |-mediator.ts           # optional for any domain
.   .   |-sandbox.ts            # required for root/app domain. recommended for higher-complexity subdomains.
.   .   |-console.ts            # required for root/app domain
.   .   |-http.ts               # required for root/app domain
.   .   |-store.ts              # recommended for root/app domain
.   .   |-constants.ts          # likely for every domain
.   .   |-utilities.ts          # likely for every domain
```

That for the most part should cover it. Whether the module is the root domain (app), a subsystem branch node, or a subsystem leaf node -- it may have more than or less than these. While leaf nodes may have a very light core (perhaps none at all), this is still the best place to add core behavior of that domain as it grows. Just like with service (models, etc.), there is no need to nest something underneath a directory if there is only 1 module in that grouping and there is otherwise not a lot of _directory bloat_. But using a _rule of 3_ when you have, say, more than 2 modules then it may be time to nest them under a particular grouping type (_services_, _models_, etc) -- in this case _core_. Faculties of core should ideally be reusable and different than _common_. Something that falls under _common_ may be less abstracted and more concrete. The difference between _core_ and _common_ is that: (a) a core _may_ actually be only used for one dense part of the application and only specific to that domain, (b) core tends to handle things at the highest-level of that domain or abstractly, (c) core acts as something of a domain _head_ while common is likely to be a domain for less intelligent modules that are without a doubt necessarily used across multiple domains. Ultimately, where you decide to put which may depend on what situation you find yourself in.

### Other Considerations
Throughout this magazine you will find other considerations to incorporate into your application. These are not limited to Mock Driven Development environments, Playgrounds, and more. In a nutshell, here is what your application should more or less look like regardless of any phase of development your app is in. Everything in the following diagram has been discussed either within this article or within others.

## Frontend Application
We'll assume the suprastructure as any framework -- Angular, React, Vue, Svelte, etc. -- with a Sandbox Driven infrastructure, compositive scaffolding, and an EDA archetype using PubSub.

```
[project-name]
.   |-env
.   .   |-environment.ts
.   .   |-path.ts
.   .   |-index.ts
.   |-src
.   .   |-core
.   .   .   |-http
.   .   .   .   |-fetch.ts
.   .   |-app
.   .   .   |-sandbox.ts
.   .   .   |-app.ts
.   .   .   |-children
.   .   .   .   |-[module-name]
.   .   .   .   .   |-component.ts
.   .   .   .   .   |-component.spec.ts
.   .   .   .   .   |-service.ts
.   .   .   .   .   |-models
.   .   .   .   .   .   |-[model-name].ts
.   .   .   .   .   .   |-...
.   .   .   .   .   |-children
.   .   .   .   .   .   |-[module-name]
.   .   .   .   .   .   .   |-component.ts
.   .   .   .   .   .   .   |-component.spec.ts
.   .   .   .   .   .   .   |-service.ts
.   .   .   .   .   .   .   |-models
.   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   |-[model-name].ts
.   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   |-...
.   .   .   .   .   .   .   |-children
.   .   .   .   .   .   |-...
.   .   .   .   |-...
.   |-mocks
.   .   |-http
.   .   .   |-api               # statically served directory
.   .   .   .   |-users         # directory
.   .   .   .   .   |-998       # JSON file without file-extension
.   .   .   .   |-projects      # JSON file without file-extension
.   .   .   .   |-[...more]
.   |-playground (optional)
.   |-mck.env
.   |-dev.env
.   |-stg.env
.   |-.env
.   |-package.json
.   |-.gitignore                # don't forget to ignore `.env`s and ./mocks
```

#### Simplified
```
[project-name]
.   |-env
.   .   |-environment.ts
.   .   |-path.ts
.   .   |-index.ts
.   |-src
.   .   |-[module-name]
.   .   .   |-[module-name].[ext]
.   .   .   |-children
.   .   .   .   |-[recursion]
.   .   |-[more]
.   |-mocks
.   .   |-http
.   .   .   |-api               # statically served directory
.   .   .   .   |-users         # directory
.   .   .   .   .   |-998       # JSON file without file-extension
.   .   .   .   |-projects      # JSON file without file-extension
.   .   .   .   |-[...more]
.   |-playground (optional)
.   |-mck.env
.   |-dev.env
.   |-stg.env
.   |-.env
.   |-package.json
.   |-.gitignore                # don't forget to ignore `.env`s and ./mocks
```

This is a scaffolding pattern which scales indefinitely. When leverages with _import anchors_ (`@`paths in in `tsconfig.json`), barrel files, and a Sandbox -- that's when the real magic is happening. As modules & components become more common, you just hoist them up the module tree with usually so little as only having to change one line -- sometimes none at all. That means they can make their way up the tree until finally arriving in `**/children/common` directory. Therefrom getting eyeballed by the Frontend Architect as a candidate for making its way into the cross-app `core` module. The same goes for any `[module-name]/core` modules. The `app` module can have a core just the same as any `app/children/**/[module-name]` can. Each module should likely maintain its own _core_ for that feature. Domains with higher than usual complexity may likely even have their own Sandbox, which would likely both extend a parent Sandbox (oftentimes `app`) and live within `**/children/[module-name]/core`. These can all be hoisted into the app core module before making their way into the a `src/core` module. Anything within this module is likely put there to communicate with the architect that something is a candidate to be pulled into a cross-app common core pulled in from a private NPM repo or the like. There are only 3 types of modules that are actually special: (1) _core_ modules, (2) _app_ modules, and (3) _common_ modules. "Core" modules may be special because they may have high particularity to a specific domain. "App" modules because they are the root module and others may likely extend them or otherwise not be concerned with behaviors at the scale of the app root. And "Common" modules basically because their name simply indicates commonality between other modules -- it's usually just a nicely named home. We used `children` as the nomenclature for subsystems in order to better reflect its application of _The Composite Patter_. However, some shops may opt for calling it `subsystem` or the more cringy version "components" (cringy because it's not at all just "components" that live there). One main property of this pattern's design is that all modules are essentially packaged into their own domains in a _Domain Driven Design_ fashion.

### Benefits

#### It Scales With Complexity
This will scale extremely well with a Triage strategy as you can begin (greenfield) with a simple Sandbox that performs basic PubSub across your app. You can even provide a super simple data-store behind the sandbox if desired. As the app grows, you can move from broadcasting everything all the time (or always sending it to a reducer) to setting up interjection hooks. As things become more complex you may consider making these hooks route behavior in certain directions. As certain subdomains become more complex, they may provide their own Sandbox (hopefully using Liskov Substitution [Priciple], see SOLID) and implement mediation for that particular domain, turning the hub & spoke model into a compositive hub & spoke model with leaves and branches as necessary. Alongside, as you enhance your app, say, a PWA (Progressive Web App) you can move as much of the mediation logic (once encapsulated in the sandbox) back behind a _Worker_ as much as you desire. This may not just be necessary for a PWA but has other benefits beside performance. Especially, when it comes to _shared state across browser tabs_ you will need a better handle on the data and interaction across your app with the use of a _SharedWorker_ whose interaction with the main thread is brokered through the sandbox. Otherwise, you may only need to leverage the _Window Messaging API_ where, especially, using a common sandbox across parent and child apps is necessary -- perhaps even critical. Need to wireup a WebSocket? A Sandbox is the perfect spot. All that said, an Application Sandbox scales exactly how you need it to between simple and complex phases of the application's lifespan.

#### Fast & Easy Project Onboarding
Incorporating a `channels` docket can aid typeahead functionality in your IDE while also providing a nice docket for all of the events within your app. Any new developer onboarding with the app has an immediate 10,000ft view of the app and will onboard much more easily with little explanation.

#### Components Become _Very_ "Dumb" and Highly Portable
Within the "Dumb" vs "Smart" component idiom, components and other modules become very "dumb" and portable. Although, this is almost a misnomer. Dumb means something like speechless. Your components become very _SRP_ but they are rather _chatty_. All they do is just publish different events of interest when their state changes. The more the marrier here as messages can always be used for telemetry & logging.

#### Telemetry & Logging
It is really nice being able to just provide another hook to catch an event of interest. You may implement a Sandbox/Mediator hook for this or even wrap the whole sandbox system again to provide logging and telemetry on every single dispatch. The sky is the limit here. While you should prefer to import your `console` object from somewhere anyway, you may choose to log everything and let a _wrapped console_ handle which logs should or shouldn't be filtered through depending on the environment.

#### Coupling
While you may opt for a sandbox that simply implements _The Facade Pattern_, leverage _The Mediator Pattern_ in a classical sense, or goes a step further to leverage PubSub (making it an EDA) -- you are benefiting from **big wins** in lowered Coupling and lower Link-Degree/Fan-(In/Out). In face, just implementing it as a Facade will automatically lower what I call _CAMP_ or _Average Coupling Per Module_. That is, instead of having `10` modules that import the same `5` dependencies (Fan-Out `50`, CAMP=`5`), you can add `1` additonal module (the sandbox) to lower your CAMP to ~`1.4` (`5 + 10 / 11`) as each of the other `10` modules now only import `1` single dependency -- the sandbox -- which is the only module with a Fan-Out of `5`. If you make it an EDA you're virtually only using "Message Coupling" which is the lowest type of coupling other that "No Coupling" (where modules do not interact _at all_).

#### Refactors
Refactors become about effortless when all you need to do is hoist something up the module tree, extend a root sandbox, or extract behavior out from several parts of the system into the application head/core or otherwise and just subscribe to a new channel on the sandbox.

#### Migrations
Not that you would want to migrate away from this architecture but, if you ever had migration concerns, rest assured this is one of the easiest companions for a migration. The architecture is perfect for leveraging, IMHO, one of the best refactor patterns: "BBA" or _Branch By Abstraction_, which is specifically designed for migrations. In this case, however, rather than implementing BBA in many different places across the app (and having to track that) you only have to implement it in virtually one single place (a few if you're leveraging subsystem sandboxes).

#### Testing
This may be the best part of Sandbox Driven Development. Because the point of a Sandbox (among other things) is to provide a Facade (see _The Facade Patter_) across all of your service modules, it dramatically lowers the overall _Link-Degree_ (_Fan-In_ & _Fan-Out_) throught the rest of the system while focusing it mostly into the sandbox. That means, each component only relies on 1 module instead of 15 (or **worse**). It also means that stubbing & mocking in your tests becomes _way_ less painful. In fact, one developer can begin to flesh out the particular parts of a _shared mock sandbox_ that is any concern to his own test code. Then another developer fleshes out a bit more of the shared mock sandbox -- then another, ...etc. Rather quickly the team has a fully fleshed out mock sandbox that all tests can share (or extend) and nobody is really mocking/stubbing a whole lot anymore. Even better, because we now have an app full of mostly chatty, dumb/SRP modules, we have to do less to actually test them. The most exciting part: we also have much higher _Code Confidence_ because we did the dirty work of mocking 30 dependencies _only once_ -- instead of 7 here, 8 there, 15 again, 25 in that other spot, and over and over again for every test -- so _now we have invested a lot in testing our sandbox on which the rest of our system depends_. If that doesn't give you high Code Confidence -- nothing will.

#### Security
Sandboxes grant us some very serious high levels of security -- well, opportunities for it anyway. Before diving in too deep, let's talk a bit about parts of the overall Threat Model of a frontend that are oftentimes missed (or misunderstood).
```
----------------------------------------------------
|                    |        |                    |
|                    |        |                    |
|                    |        |                    |
|                    |        |                    |
|       SERVER       |   UI   |        USER        |
|                    |        |                    |
|                    |        |                    |
|                    |        |                    |
|                    |        |                    |
----------------------------------------------------
                     A        B                     
```

##### A
These are vectors for threats going _to a server_ **and** from a server _into your frontend app_.

##### B
These are vectors for threats coming _into an app_ (from, say, a malicious or confused user) **and** potentially from your frontend app _to your user_.

Those are the <span style="color: firebrick">Danger Zones</span> and every UI has them. Here's another place where sandboxes shine. Instead of every module taking direct input from a user and shoving it off to the server willy nilly, the sandbox performs the communication both _to_ and _from_ the server (A) while the UI components either handle the danger zone between the UI and the user (B) -- or the sandbox covers both A and B and UI all components have to do is worry about strictly UI things and not juggle that with application security. I don't know about you but, when tasked with implementing stopgaps for security measures, I would _much_ rather implement it in a single "conduit" (see above) than all across an entire application. Which would you feel more comfortable & confident about? Implementing it where _all things pass through_ or _everywhere you can think of_? The former, of course.

#### Normalization
Needless to say, when all of your projects employ the same application architecture pattern you get normalization. This is just one proposition, although, I don't really see any others out there. The advantage you get with this is that it is an application architecture with all of these other benefits baked into it. All of these things above are really what the important parts of good application architecture.


## Synopsis
Some people believe that as soon as you select a framework, that's all the application architecture you need. This couldn't be further from the truth. In fact, using the architecture described in this article means that _which_ framework you choose to go with is _less relevant_. Some people will throw have a fit and throw a huge temper tantrum when they hear that, but maybe that just means we are investing more than we should in frameworks that over-promise on what they solve only to fail when the rubber has met the road. This is _not_ an argument to forego any framework selection process or decisions. It just means that it becomes less important in many respects while the proposed application architecture should be in place regardless of which framework you do select.
