
Internationalization
================================================================

## Myth
_You need an i18n/l10n library in order to internationalize a site or app_.

## Reason
A fully scalable Translator service can be built in 25-50 LOC.

## Conventions
Assuming a couple of minor conventions, Internationalization/Localization becomes very simple. Let's assume we have `locale.{lang}.json` files that look about like this.

### `locale.en.json`
```json
{
    "PURCHASE:COMPLETE:MESSAGE": "Thank you for purchasing your new ${vehicle} ${locale['TAXON:DAY:TODAY']}!",
    "TAXON:VEHICLE:AUTO": "car",
    "TAXON:VEHICLE:MOTO": "motorcycle",
    "TAXON:DAY:TODAY": "today",
    "USER:SETTINGS:PRIVACY:BUTTON:SAVE": "Save",
    "USER:SETTINGS:PRIVACY:BUTTON:CANCEL": "Cancel",
    "USER:SETTINGS:PRIVACY:TAC": "${ltts.en}"
}
```

#### Conventions to Note
- **All** locale files use _fully-qualified_ translation keys -- there is no nesting as this radically complicates our translation system. Preferably, this follows a reasonable _Domain-Driven Design_.
- Advanced translation values can use any convention of interpolation syntax.
- Interpolation tokens can use "_Taxa_", to automatically interpolate translation keys from the same locale file.
- Taxon translation keys should always start with the root qualifier of "`TAXON`".
- Translators can target specific keys or run the same operation over every process.

## Synopsis
In virtually 40 LOC, we can create a fully-scalable l10n system that performs the super simple mapping, employs a fallback system from injected environment variables (on `env`) to a `?lang` query parameter (which could also use `location.pathname.split('/').pop()`) to `navigator.language` to a `constructor` parameter, provides generic core _variable interpolation hooks_ including the use of **"TAXON" interpolation**, leverages specific translators that target specific translation keys for special operations only the app should know about such as which keys demand _Markdown Translations_, AKA LTTs (Large Text Translations). The `translators` system uses a specific flavor of the CoR pattern (_The Chain of Responsibility Pattern_) where, if you'd like to override a core translator, you can simply import it and call `translators.delete(name)` to remove it before adding your own. This does everything and more than any library out there that'll work until it doesn't. Others might allow nesting but that's simply a beartrap for the scalability of your code. The next chapter serves as a formal Gang of Four style Software Design Pattern specification for how to achieve this.
