
Normalized Functions and Objects
================
Say you have some apparatus that allows you to set up handlers for various cases within a looping mechanism. This might ultimately look something like _The Chain of Responsibility Pattern_ or otherwise. You may want the rule to be registering Functions to handle each case. But you may also want an exception for the ability to use Objects for cases of heavy lifting. Here's a normalized way to write it...

## Preface
```javascript
import { formatComplex } from '**/formatters/complex';

const formatters = new Set()
    .add(formatSimple0)
    .add(formatSimple1)
    .add(formatSimpleN)
    .add(formatComplex)
    ;

function formatSimple0(text) {
    return `"${text}"`;
}
function formatSimple1(text) {
    return `(${text})`;
}
function formatSimpleN(text) {
    const { trim } = this;
    if (trim) return `--${text.trim()}--`;
    return `--${text}--`;
}

function execute(text, options) {
    const completed = [ ...formatters ].reduce( (text, fn) => fn.call(options, text), text );  // <-- use `call`
}

export { formatters, execute };
```

##### `**/formatters/complex`
```javascript
const formatComplex = {
    doSomethingComplex0(...) { ... }
    doSomethingComplex1(...) { ... }
    doSomethingComplexN(...) { ... }
    
    call(options, text) {
        var formatted = text
          , formatted = this.doSomethingComplex0(formatted, options)
          , formatted = this.doSomethingComplex1(formatted, options)
          , formatted = this.doSomethingComplexN(formatted, options)  
          ;
        return formatted;
    }
};
```

## Synopsis
As you can see, all we really do is create our more complex module and provide a `call` method so that we can piggyback on the native `Function.prototype.call` method of a function. Of course, we could use `.apply`, maybe implement `.bind` in our complex formatter. All that matters is that we align the One-Offs with something that is either a strong convention or actually native. In fact, this little tactic can be very useful when implementing other patterns. One case being _The Observer Pattern_ where, instead of invoking `update` on all Observers, we just invoke a `call` method instead -- allowing us to register raw `function`s as Observers. You can use the same approach with _The Command Pattern_ so that, instead of invoking `.execute`, you invoke a `call` method. That is, The Command Pattern can largely be replaced in JavaScript by simply passing around Callbacks. However, The Command Pattern is also useful when you may want to localize, say, Undo/Redo functionality (for example). That means you may still have usecases in JavaScript to leverage the pattern and the tactic above could come in handy so you can default to function callbacks for the majority of cases while still allowing room for more complex one-off scenarios. In reality, if you ever come across code that is using functions when you need to use an object to encapsulate more complex functionality (see SOLID Principles), just refactor wherever the invocation of the function is to use `call` or `apply`; then you can create that one-off object that implements one of those methods.
