
Auxiliary Routes
================
At times your app may have external entry points into the app. Those may be from verification emails, promotional emails, SMS/text, other apps & websites, or otherwise. Usually these are public and so it may make sense to keep them somewhat tightened down. A great way to do this is create a new section in your app for `aux` or _auxiliary_ routes. All external links into the app should pass through the parent route "`/aux`". Ideally, there is some means to put a high-level _Route Guard_ on the root or at least any nth-child route of `/aux`. Either way, you may want to simply redirect to a normative route within your app (and probably log it), provide in-app links therein, or even handle particular user interactions such as verification codes. Here's an example...

```typescript
const router = new Route([
    {
        path: 'app',
        guard: AppGuard,
        children: [ ... ]
    },
    {
        path: 'auth',
        children: [
            { path: 'login', ... },
            { path: 'logout', ... },
            { path: 'password/reset?tempId', ... },
        ]
    },
    {
        path: 'aux',
        guard: AuxGuard,
        children: [
            { path: 'auth/password/reset?tempId', redirect: '~/auth/password/reset?tempId' },
            { path: 'promotions/{promoId}', ... },
            { path: 'events/{type}?json', ... },
        ]
    },
    { path: '**', redirect: '404' },
]);
```

## Synopsis
The example illustrates a more organized and safer way that you can set up _auxiliary routes_ in a frontend application. You may want to do this to simply log all visits from any external, public entry points (other than login). The reasoning is that these links are either slung out into the wild for virtually anyone to acquire. We use a Route Guard or some other means of attaching a module that more or less performs telemetry to that we always have an eye on who is visiting with what credentials (password reset id, promotion id, etc). In one case we have the Aux Route simply redirect to a non auxiliary route. We may even have intranet apps in our organization that need to link to the app in some way. The example even shows how you can set up an "events" location so that intranet apps can redirect with specific signals to your app while providing light JSON payloads. In that case, you may even forego any other child-routes of `/aux` in favor of the `/aux/events` path (in which case you may prefer just a `/events` route). Either way, this gives us a _conduit_ to catch _all_ external and potentially dangerous entries into the app.
