
Styleguides that are either too strict or loose (a metastyleguide)
================
Everybody has see one or the other. The upside of one that is too loose is that it can always improve over time. The downside of the former is that it becomes a dogmatic law that nobody will ever let go of -- even when it makes sense to. Once that styleguide is official, YOU ARE LOCKED IN. What's worse is that it will shave off, say, 10% of one single developer's productivity -- beside the amount of time wasted in code review when perhaps what the developer did was perfectly fine. Lop off 10% of 10 developers' productivity and you just threw a whole man-hour down the drain. Do that 10 times a day for a week and you just lost a whole day of productivity. You see what I'm getting at...

Oftentimes in a too-strict styleguide you'll see and hear a lot of "NEVER do this" and "ALWAYS to that". A psychopath wrote that. The only time your styleguide should say "always" and "never" are...

> - Never use "always" and "never".
> - Always use "prefer" and "avoid".

Those are probably the only two times you should use it. The fact is, all these things they're saying always & never about are actually features of the language. I can think of several typical cases that, if used in the right circumstances, are very powerful.

##### "Never use `var`"
Really??? What about a validator function...
```javascript
function validate(data) {
    var valid = true
      , valid = valid && validateA(data)
      , valid = valid && validateB(data)
      , valid = valid && validateC(data)
      , valid = valid && validateZ(data)  
      ;
    return valid;
}
```
Really??? You're going to make me come up with variable names for 100 different operations that all indicate the same state?

##### "Never use `==` (Double-Equals / Loose Equality)"
Really??? What if I'm comparing an ID from a collection with and ID from the route's pathname parameters...
```typescript
class SomeComponent {
    target: string = '-1';
    
    constructor(private router) {
        this.target = router.params.id;
    }
    
    handleEdit(e, id: number, modifications) {
        if (id == this.id) dispatch({ type: 'ITEM:EDITED', payload: modifications });
        else toast("You're not allowed to edit this item");
    }
    
}
```

##### "Never use `eval`. Eval is Evil!!!"
Ok. Yes, you need to be careful with this one. But there is noting wrong with...

```javascript
const { constructor } = object;
const { name } = constructor;
const instance = eval(`new ${name}()`);
```
I control all of the code and there are no User-Generated Content. So it's _not_ an attach vector.

##### "Never use `with`"
Yeah, well, if I need to use `with` then it's probably something I can't really do without using `with` in the first place. So we either nix the feature or take the performance hit -- but that's a Product Owner's call, not yours.


## Synopsis
These are all features of the language and there is not reason not to use them at certain times. Again, a solid styleguide would say "prefer" or "avoid". The styleguide's original author may have carefully phrased it with "always" & "never" so that he or she could _let things slide_ when there's a good reason. But they left the company 4 years ago and now all the Seniors who once were terrified Juniors now all worship the Always Never God. When you actually grant someone a little bit of freedom, you might just learn something from the approaches they take. If we're all into diversity, let people be diverse. **But what about styleguides that are too loose?** Those are absent styleguides. A styleguide's evolution should be long and enduring. Don't jump up and try to create the perfect styleguide out of the gates tomorrow. Create a blank sheet first. After a few code reviews have gone by and you AND YOUR WHOLE TEAM have decided something is impacting the code degatively... go ahead! Write it down! I am not saying you cannot come out of the box with a few rules of thumb. But it doesn't have to be complete at its arrival. Let it breath a little. Let it simmer. The more important stuff to keep your code healthy is not exactly styleguide stuff, per se. It is actuall gonna be how well you write _Defensive Code_ (see section).
