
The Custom Event Loop Pattern &copy;
================================================================


### Intent
Define an Event-Bus that performs middleman operations between a sender and a receiver of a message.

### Also Know As
- The CEL Bus Pattern
- The Interjection Handler Pattern
- The Interjector Pattern
- Event-Driven Mediation
- Application Head
- Domain Head
- Man In The Middleware Events

### Motivation
Many frontend State Stores, such as Redux, RxJS/NgRX, and others provide an interface for State Management.

But these come along with at least one major oversight. There tends to be a massive conflation between the aspects of State Management and _Mediation_, if mediation and _Side Effects_ are even thought about at all. Otherwise, side effects & mediation tend to be an afterthought and retrofitted into the state management system.

### Applicability
Use The Custom Event Loop Pattern when
- you want to absorb complex logic from the rest of the system to make other modules 'dumber' and more portable, focusing it into a module specifically designed to address complexity (simple Event-Driven Mediation).
- you want Telemetry or Event Sourcing, where all events get piped through a conduit that records all actions in your app or a particular domain.
- you need a medium to perform middleware operations between sender & receiver, such as network calls.
- you need the ability to interject on actions from one module that transforms the data for the same or another module.
- you want to perform other operations on the data or channel such as _Squelching_ for sensitive data, translation to another channel, throw errors, or perform other translations on data from the input or the ultimate output.
- you want to funnel one action into multiple other actions, such as invoke other modules (see The Mediator Pattern).
- you otherwise need side effects between sender & receiver, such as storing or caching data for state management.
- you need to apply The Adapter Pattern against Events, themselves.
- you need to apply The Decorator Pattern against Events, themselves.
- you need to prevent certain messages for sensitive data from being heard by the rest of the system (auth tokens, etc) for security reasons.
- you want a unified EDA interface which decides where messages should ultimately be pipes such as a WebSocket, Window Messaging, network calls, `BroadcastChannel`s, State Stores, or ephemeral messages to local in-memory modules.

### Structure
```
     Site A
┌────────────────┐                           Site B                                    Site C
|  ⧉ App Shell  |                         ┌────────┐                                ┌────────┐
│       ⊡────────────────────────────────▸|  RMD ⊡────────────────────────────────▸|   RMD  |
|       |        |                         └────────┘                                └────────┘
└───────|────────┘
        |
        |
        ▾
    ┌────────┐
    │   RMD  │ Site A
    └────────┘
```

### Participants
- CEL Bus (Mediator, Domain Head): a Custom Event Loop Bus.
  - Defines the interface for publishing, subscribing, and unsubscribing to messages or may inherit from a superclass that defines it.
  - Defines one or more Interjection Handlers.
- Interjection Handler ("Interjector", Middleware): a method of the CEL Bus or another object know by the CEL Bus.
  - Intercepts a message from a Publisher.
  - Performs one or more operations.
    - Translate: spreads one or more data from the payload or the same data across one or more disparate channels.
    - Transform: provides different data for the same channel.
    - Squelch: prevents the message from being heard by a Subscriber (discontinues CEL for that action).
    - Side Effect: continues the Event Loop while providing one or more other operations (logging, validation, etc).
- Publisher (Dispatcher, Sender): any module that uses the CEL Bus to dispatch messages.
- Subscriber (Listener, Receiver): any module that uses the CEL Bus to subscribe to messages.

### Collaborations
- The CEL Bus [typically] defines Interjectors on its own scope and, upon dispatch by a Publisher, checks to see if an Interjector exists before mapping to it and invoking it.
- The Interjector accepts the channel and data as its parameters. It explicitly performs an operation to continue the Event Loop (Translate, Transform, Side Effect) or discontinue it (Squelch).
- One or more Subscribers listen for the message if they expect it to be continued.

### Consequences
The CEL Pattern
- Allows for a Publisher to dispatch the ID of a record that only exists in a database on a server while a Subscriber receives the data for the actual record from the database.
- Allows a single module to publish a message and listen on the same channel for different data without generating an Infinite Loop or defining extra IO channels.
- Hardens Perimeter Security by protecting sensitive data from being intercepted by other modules accessible from penetration vectors.
- Telemetry can be implemented for security and troubleshooting.
- Event Sourcing can be implemented by as a Side Effect of The CEL Pattern, allowing an entire User Experiences to be played back for complex User Interfaces.
- An API can be provided in Staging or other environments so that QA Engineers or automation scripts can leverage Event Sourcing as a _State Loader_ to jump to specific app-states and UIs. Developers can use it to troubleshoot production issues in other environments.
- CEL Buses can be used as a single Application Head, as a Mediator, as Subdomain Heads (compositive mediation), or in selective regions of the codebase where uses are necessary for specific benefits. For example, a simple auth system can leverage a CEL Bus to simply squelch the token so developers never receive it if they listen for it.
- CEL Buses can route messages to other media, over the network or otherwise, depending on what business logic dictates such.
- The CEL Bus Pattern can be integrated with a _`SpecialEvent`_, used for higher-complexity async operations where _The Command Pattern_ or a `Promise` is leverages to minimize Race Conditions and increase coupling when coupling is too weak.

### Implementation
There are specific tradeoffs to consider when electing to implement The CEL Pattern.
1. _Coupling_. Developers must make a conscious decision between Message Coupling and a stronger type of Software Coupling. Stronger types of coupling may be more ideal, however, forcing more actions through a single, or even multiple, CEL Buses may weaken coupling too much, causing Race Conditions or other unwanted issues. This is not likely any different than a regular Event Bus in this way, however, asynchronous operations may _surface_ Race Conditions that were already lurking.
1. Event Sourcing and other Memory-Interactive operations. Developers must be cognizant of any operations of Interjection Handlers which increase the Stack or Heap size of the machine's Memory. If not careful, overflows can occur, disrupting the User Experience.

### Sample Code

#### CEL Bus

##### Event-Driven Mediator: `@core/utilities/patterns/behavioral/mediator.ts`
```typescript
export class Mediator {
    #medium: EventTarget = new EventTarget();
    
    $dispatch(event: MessageEvent) {
        this.#medium.dispatchEvent(event);
        return this;
    }
    
    dispatch(channel: string, data: any = {}) {
        const event = new MessageEvent(channel, { data });
        this.$dispatch(event);
        return this;
    }
    
    publish(channel: string, data) {
        if (channel in this) this[channel](channel, data);
        else this.dispatch(channel, data);
        return this;
    }
    
    subscribe(channel: string, handle: EventListenerOrEventListenerObject) {
        this.#medium.addEventListener(channel, handle, true);
        return this;
    }
    
    unsubscribe(channel: string, handle: EventListenerOrEventListenerObject) {
        this.#medium.removeEventListener(channel, handle, true);
        return this;
    }
    
};
```

#### Concrete CEL Bus: `@app/core/mediator.ts`
```typescript
import { Mediator as Core } from '@core/utilities/patterns/behavioral';
import { store } from '@app/store';
import { service } from '@app/api';
import { channels } from './channels';

export const mediator = new (class Mediator extends Core {
    
    async [ channels['SOME:CHANNEL:INTERJECTED'] ](channel: string, id: string) {
        const response = await service.get(id);  // gets data from server
        store.dispatch({ type: channel, payload: response });  // stores it
        this.dispatch(channel, response);  // continues Custom Event Loop
    }
    
})();
```

#### Publisher & Subscriber (As One Module)
##### `@app/children/**/*.component.ts`
```typescript
import { mediator, channels } from '@app/core';

export class UIComponent extends HTMLElement {
    items: any[] = [];
    
    handleSelection = (e: MouseEvent) => {
        const { target } = e;
        const { dataset } = target;
        const { id } = dataset;
        
        mediator.publish(channels['SOME:CHANNEL:INTERJECTED'], id);  // dispatches the id, a string.
    };
    
    handleData = (e: MessageEvent) => {
        const { items } = this;
        const { data } = e;  // gets data from the server, via the mediator.
        items.push(data);
    };
    
    connectedCallback() {
        mediator.subscribe(channels['SOME:CHANNEL:INTERJECTED'], this.handleData);  // subscribes to same channel, gets real data.
        this.shadowRoot.addEventListener('click', this.handleSelection, true);
    }
    
    disconnectedCallback() {
        mediator.unsubscribe(channels['SOME:CHANNEL:INTERJECTED'], this.handleData);
        this.shadowRoot.removeEventListener('click', this.handleSelection, true);
    }
    
};
```

### Known Uses
Many companies like Accuris, Arrow Electronics, and plenty of others have implemented the same pattern, usually as an Application Head with potential compositive Domain Heads, for _Application Mediation_ andor selectively for complex, specific User Interfaces across different apps in their product line. Many of these can be found in the wild, however, there are no known frameworks or libraries integrating this pattern directly as it tends to be specific to particular domains. The closest implementations within frameworks can be seen in Redux Saga or Thunk, which provide behavior tailored towards Side Effects, but no known implementation that more tightly aligns with this pattern exists from any known frameworks.

### Related Patterns
Similar patterns can be seen in Addy Osmani's ["Patterns For Large-Scale JavaScript Application Architecture"](https://addyosmani.com/blog/patterns-for-large-scale-javascript-application-architecture/) or Nicholas Zakas's ["Scalable JavaScript Application Architecture"](https://www.slideshare.net/slideshow/scalable-javascript-application-architecture/1964440) and his elaborations on "Sandbox Driven Development" & "Sandbox Theory".
